An Assistant Sub Inspector ASI was on Thursday suspended here for allegedly posting obscene photos on a local WhatsApp group police said.
AamirKhans wifeKiranRao registers complaint against fake account holder.
The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation IRCTC on Thursday denied reports that its website had been hacked.
Taiwan on Monday accused China which regards the selfruled island as a breakaway province of kidnapping eight of its nationals who it said had been acquitted in a cyber crime case in Kenya.
Nowadays with the increasing use of Internet many people have become an avid user of social media. Some of them have become so addicted that they often update and posts every minute detail of their life on social media. But we often tend to forget that social media is unsafe with the increasing of cyber crime. So one should stay alert while enjoying social media.
Cyber space is increasingly being used to radicalise young minds he said addressing a security meet organised by ASSOCHAM here.
India along with China Russia Saudi Arabia and South Korea ranked among the nations most vulnerable to damaging cyberattacks according to scientists including those of Indianorigin.
According to a report by UKbased data security firm BugsBounty.Com out of the major startups it analysed were negligent in implementing and maintaining reasonable security practices and procedures.
In view of increasing cyber crime cases CBI is mulling setting up a special branch here to probe such offences its director Anil Sinha said on Tuesday.
The company emphasised on the criticality of maintaining degrees of vigilance.
Simply to gain followers and increase their social base people dont hold back before adding andor accepting requests of complete strangers.
Twitter Incsaid it had suspended over accounts since mid for threatening or promoting terrorist acts primarily related to ISIS.
India has called for a truly global convention to fight cyber crime and to ensure cyber security.
Britains National Crime Agency on Tuesday launched a campaign to discourage youngsters from becoming hackers after it found the average age of suspects had plummeted to .
Top U.S. and Chinese officials will convene this week in Washington for the first round of cyber security talks following the signing of a bilateral antihacking accord in September.
Hackers have expanded their attacks to parking malware on popular filesharing services including Dropbox and Google Drive .
Across the countries polled for the study revealed theyd been affected by cybercrime and that on average dealing with the aftermath took hours and cost .
An estimated million Indians lost about Rs on an average to cyber crime in addition to the emotional stress caused by personal financial data breach a report by software security firm Norton says.
Rampant crime over cyberspace and inability of the police in dealing with such cases have led to the setting up of this helpline.
How Indias First Wildlife Cyber Crime Cell Helped Nab Tiger PoachersSep 
Tanmay Goswami is a ladies man quite literally. The yearold has been held by the Bangur Nagar police after he conned several women on the pretext of marrying them by posing as a senior government officer on a matrimonial website. Young successful somethings fell for the charms of his online bio data and offline personality and shelled o. 
A senior citizen residing in Bandra west was duped of nearly Rs . crore in what can be termed as the biggest cyber fraud involving an individual this year. The last such fraud case reported was of Rs . crore last year. 
A yearold conman posing as a detective was arrested yesterday by the Pune cyber cell for duping a man under the pretext of helping him track his sons movements through a mobile software. Jagnath Chaudhury a Chandan Nagarbased businessman had approached the accused Sagar Ashok Pandit in March to keep tabs on his collegegoing son. 
Sextortion using nude photos of someone to press for even racier content or other goods is surprisingly common a US think tank says in what it calls the first indepth study of another danger lurking in cyberspace. 
We have communicated the date April to the cyber crime on Saturday last as that is the earliest when all three of us Kangana her sister Rangoli and I will be available for recording of the statement Kangana Ranauts lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee said on Tuesday 
Why and how did a laptop become such an important piece of evidence in the HrithikKangana controversy Why is the actress not surrendering the said laptop to the cyber crime cell Is the cell making matters more complicated 
A yearold model who had starred in a recently released Hindi movie was arrested by officers from Cyber Crime Cell CCC for defaming a yearold Australian national of Kashmiriorigin on social media. 
None of the individuals is in American custody and its unclear if theyll ever be arrested or whether criminal indictments in absentia effectively combat such crimes. 
Bangladeshi cybercrime expert that went missing in the wake of the largest cyber heist in the country has been found but details are scant. 
The cyber thieves who stole million from Bangladesh Bank appear to have hid their tracks by manipulating a central bank computer and printer that connect to the SWIFT messaging system to hide evidence of the heist according to a report filed with local police. 
Suspected Pakistanbased groups have hacked the official web portal of the Indian Revenue Service IRS belonging to the Income Tax department. 
Russian authorities in November raided offices associated with a Moscow film distribution and production company as part of a crackdown on one of the worlds most notorious financial hacking operations according to three sources with knowledge of the matter. 
Hijacking smart toasters and refrigerators and hacking corporate ventilation systems are among the new threats envisioned by cybersecurity experts as an increasing array of items are connected to the Internet. 
The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team CERTIn and its counterparts in Malaysia Singapore and Japan have signed three pacts for cooperation in cyber security. 
The drunk trio was attacking a local when a passing patrolling policeman and a subinspector intervened. The accused directed their ire at the ASI before the cops overpowered them
The constable was arrested from his colony and released on a bail of Rs Byculla police have submitted a report to the DCP recommending suspension and an inquiry against him
City Police today arrested a man who had allegedly raped and murdered a yearold girl at Bollarum area here.
CBI arrested Rajendra Kumar for misusing his official position to ease tenders worth Rs . crore since 
A rickshaw driver from Malad has been arrested for luring a minor with the promise of marriage and raping her. The girls mother who is undergoing treatment for paralysis used to be transported to and from a hospital by him
The Economic Offence Wing EOW of Odisha Polices Crime Branch said it had on Sunday arrested an official who was absconding after being accused of defrauding the state government by issuing a fake gazette notification and swindling public money
The Cyber police have arrested the West Bengalbased owner of two websites for allegedly procuring live data from the National Stock Exchange NSE and selling it illegally through the websites
An unidentified womans highly decomposed body was found at Fatherwadi near Vidya Vikas High School and Jr College in Vasai yesterday afternoon. Body found by boys who were playing cricket
Four persons were arrested for allegedly severely beating three minor boys for stealing money in Bengaluru Rural district last week police said on Sunday
In a dramatic case that lasted for about minutes to nab a year old man in pocession of an Italian made . CAL MM semi automatic Gun and live cartridges the Tilak Nagar police arrested Navinchandra Kadappa Kundar he was finally caught near the skywalk bridge located close to Chembur railway station
The Bhandup police has registered an FIR against a yearold for allegedly raping a yearold girl
According to police one of the accused in the Rs crore robbery in Thane visited the Saibaba temple at Shirdi after the robbery to seek blessings and donated Rs lakh
yearold woman Vrushali Bamanewho siphoned off Rs . crore from her company was eyeing the owners fixed deposits when she was arrested
The Bangur Nagar cops have arrested a yearold man who targeted successful women on a matrimonial site and cheated them of lakhs he already has two wives
Recent incident of an attempted theft at Jupiter Hospital in Thane during which the thief was nabbed redhanded by one of his victims has raised serious doubts over security arrangements at the facility
Pune police have arrested three persons including a woman from New Delhi for allegedly duping over sixty people in Maharashtra by them promising loans at a low interest rate
Cops are amazed by how Std XII pass Vrushali Bamane not only managed to embezzle over Rs crore but also shrewdly invested it in properties across the state
Police said the accused Suresh Bije a former watchman hit his wife Priti on her head with a hammer then cut both her wrists before hanging himself from the ceiling fan
Ghatkoparbased travel agency owner who was arrested by the Kurla RPF used USmade software to generate fake IRCTC accounts to execute his nefarious act
In a massive night time robbery a group of around seven people entered a private company and fled with Rs . crore in cash in three drums along with six mobile phones
Stay updated with latest crime news cyber crime news crime cases rape news from hundreds of sources all in one place. Get the indepth coverage of crime cases in India the world in this Crime News Section.
We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookie Policies to find out more.
Moores website specialised in posting revenge porn pictures of people that had either been sent in by expartners or stolen through the hacking of victimsemail accounts
New York lawyers say bn of illgotten gains were processed though moneytransfer service
Two jailed another sent to young offenders unit and fourth handed suspended sentence
Working from their bedrooms they stole personal data from hundreds of thousands of people
Onslaught believed to be the work of spammers has been likened to series of digital nuclear bombs
A criminal investigation is under way after a hacker broke into email accounts belonging to members of the Bush family and their close friends publishing phone numbers home security codes and a picture of George H.W. Bush during his recent hospital stay when he was reported to be close to death.
IT specialists should consider becoming police volunteers to help stop criminals trying to fleece Britons of hundreds of millions of pounds online the Security Minister is to suggest.
The country is panicbuying petrol whilst the PM is in a hot spot over a pasty row. The timing couldnt be better for the return of Yes Prime Minister to screens after years.
With an uncompromising performance at the Leveson Inquiry this week the Met Polices Deputy Assistant Commissioner showed that she is not to be messed with
Pc David Rathband the police officer shot and blinded by Raoul Moat was found hanged a coroner heard today.
Who invented the computer This turns out to be a far more complicated question than you might imagine. There is no doubt that it was mathematicians who first conceived of a universally programmable machine but which mathematicians
The tiny town of Donzy is Frances political weathervane. And things arent looking good for Sarkozy finds John Lichfield.
Tanmay Goswami is a ladies man quite literally. The yearold has been held by the Bangur Nagar police after he conned several women on the pretext of marrying them by posing as a senior government officer on a matrimonial website. Young successful somethings fell for the charms of his online bio data and offline personality and shelled o. 
A senior citizen residing in Bandra west was duped of nearly Rs . crore in what can be termed as the biggest cyber fraud involving an individual this year. The last such fraud case reported was of Rs . crore last year. 
A yearold conman posing as a detective was arrested yesterday by the Pune cyber cell for duping a man under the pretext of helping him track his sons movements through a mobile software. Jagnath Chaudhury a Chandan Nagarbased businessman had approached the accused Sagar Ashok Pandit in March to keep tabs on his collegegoing son. 
Sextortion using nude photos of someone to press for even racier content or other goods is surprisingly common a US think tank says in what it calls the first indepth study of another danger lurking in cyberspace. 
We have communicated the date April to the cyber crime on Saturday last as that is the earliest when all three of us Kangana her sister Rangoli and I will be available for recording of the statement Kangana Ranauts lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee said on Tuesday 
Why and how did a laptop become such an important piece of evidence in the HrithikKangana controversy Why is the actress not surrendering the said laptop to the cyber crime cell Is the cell making matters more complicated 
A yearold model who had starred in a recently released Hindi movie was arrested by officers from Cyber Crime Cell CCC for defaming a yearold Australian national of Kashmiriorigin on social media. 
None of the individuals is in American custody and its unclear if theyll ever be arrested or whether criminal indictments in absentia effectively combat such crimes. 
Bangladeshi cybercrime expert that went missing in the wake of the largest cyber heist in the country has been found but details are scant. 
The cyber thieves who stole million from Bangladesh Bank appear to have hid their tracks by manipulating a central bank computer and printer that connect to the SWIFT messaging system to hide evidence of the heist according to a report filed with local police. 
Suspected Pakistanbased groups have hacked the official web portal of the Indian Revenue Service IRS belonging to the Income Tax department. 
Russian authorities in November raided offices associated with a Moscow film distribution and production company as part of a crackdown on one of the worlds most notorious financial hacking operations according to three sources with knowledge of the matter. 
Hijacking smart toasters and refrigerators and hacking corporate ventilation systems are among the new threats envisioned by cybersecurity experts as an increasing array of items are connected to the Internet. 
The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team CERTIn and its counterparts in Malaysia Singapore and Japan have signed three pacts for cooperation in cyber security. 
A man was arrested for allegedly stealing confidential information of a UKbased client from a company where he was earlier employed Bidhannagar Police said today. 
State governments will have to send to the Centre the roadmap for implementation of the decisions and suggestions that emerged during the threeday DGPs conference held in Rann of Kutch. 
Britains National Crime Agency launched a campaign today to discourage youngsters from becoming hackers after it found the average age of suspects had plummeted to . 
Incidences of cyber crime in India shot up drastically in with per cent companies in the country falling prey to online attacks this year a survey report said. 
An estimated million Indians lost about Rs on an average to cyber crime in addition to the emotional stress caused by personal financial data breach a report by software security firm Norton says. 
The suspects were involved in cases and are accused of a wide range of cyber crimes including swindling money from individuals and banks. 
The bank revealed last year that a hack had compromised data on million household customers and seven million businesses. 
Victims of cyber offences can now report their cases and seek technical help at zero cost at the first private cyber crime reporting helpline which has become operational in DelhiNCR. 
The petitioner said these websites created public nuisance under Section of Indian Penal Code and it was a crime under the cyber laws. 
The training of serving police officials and investigating personnel will start from December this year. 
Jailed Saudi blogger Raif Badawi named winner of the Sakharov prize today is known as a fighter for free speech sentenced to lashes for insulting Islam. 
Australia and India will hold talks on counterterrorism cyber security and international crime cooperation in New Delhi during the ongoing official visit of Trade Minister and Attorney General. 
The personal data of millions of Britons could be at risk after telephone and broadband provider TalkTalk was hit by a significant and sustained cyberattack the company said today. 
Hackers associated with the Chinese government have tried to penetrate at least seven U.S. companies in the three weeks since Washington and Beijing agreed not to spy on each other for commercial reasons according to a prominent U.S. security firm. 
In view of emerging challenges in the cyber world and spiralling internet crime rate Kerala police is getting ready to launch a CyberDome a high tech centre for cyber security and innovations in Thiruvananthapuram next month. 
The owner of this website www.fbi.gov has banned your access based on your browsers signature befdbbua.
We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookie Policies to find out more.
Moores website specialised in posting revenge porn pictures of people that had either been sent in by expartners or stolen through the hacking of victimsemail accounts
New York lawyers say bn of illgotten gains were processed though moneytransfer service
Two jailed another sent to young offenders unit and fourth handed suspended sentence
Working from their bedrooms they stole personal data from hundreds of thousands of people
Onslaught believed to be the work of spammers has been likened to series of digital nuclear bombs
A criminal investigation is under way after a hacker broke into email accounts belonging to members of the Bush family and their close friends publishing phone numbers home security codes and a picture of George H.W. Bush during his recent hospital stay when he was reported to be close to death.
IT specialists should consider becoming police volunteers to help stop criminals trying to fleece Britons of hundreds of millions of pounds online the Security Minister is to suggest.
The country is panicbuying petrol whilst the PM is in a hot spot over a pasty row. The timing couldnt be better for the return of Yes Prime Minister to screens after years.
With an uncompromising performance at the Leveson Inquiry this week the Met Polices Deputy Assistant Commissioner showed that she is not to be messed with
Pc David Rathband the police officer shot and blinded by Raoul Moat was found hanged a coroner heard today.
Who invented the computer This turns out to be a far more complicated question than you might imagine. There is no doubt that it was mathematicians who first conceived of a universally programmable machine but which mathematicians
The tiny town of Donzy is Frances political weathervane. And things arent looking good for Sarkozy finds John Lichfield.
The purpose of me writing this incident in so much detail is for the fact that everyone uses social media and there are very high chances that you or your friends or your dear ones can face similar situation. We must not ignore these incidents and must encourage the person facing such issues to bring it to the attention of the authorities so that they will rectify such anti social elements of the society.
A big thanks to Raghuveer Sir and his entire team for a prompt action they have taken. This is a very good example that the protection and security provided by the highly skilled and responsible officers of Cyber Crime Police is not restricted by the geographical boundaries. Their widespread protection is always there nationwide and also for the citizens who are residing out of the country. We all are extremely proud of you and your entire team Sir. Hats off. Jai hind....
We are finally at the age that many technology prophets foresaw many years ago and it is moving faster than we could have anticipated. We no l.
TEWKSBURY Mass Reuters When hackers set out to extort the town of Tewksbury Massachusetts with ransomware they followed up with an FAQ explai.
March Reuters Expired domain names are becoming the latest route for cyber criminals to find their way into the computers of unsuspecting users.
I did not want to be so dramatic but I could not help but be completely honest as well. The end possibility is that your entire organization may suffer the fate of Sony Pictures target Anthem and others who have been shaken by hacks and vulnerabilities in their networks.
Marc Goodman recently shared his top strategies for how entrepreneurs can thwart cyber criminals and prevent our most sensitive and important assets from getting hacked.
I gained dubious distinction for arguing that a new form of encryption is not merely the techies major gift to terrorists and criminals but also a gross violation of the constitution Hence it should be outlawed.
Technology is part of our lives. Now criminals no longer have to break in to steal our valuables violate our privacy or harm our loved ones. They can and do terrorize us remotely from under the cover of darkness afforded them by the Internet of Things.
Failing to take noral precautions with cyber security can wreck your day and all of the days you have coming. All of the talk about cyber security hackers and identity theft can leave the average person befuddled.
As with most things in the modern age our banking has largely shifted from physical brickandmortar banks to a secure website or app that handles.
What Time Cook seems unable or unwilling to recognize is that privacy and security are inextricably linked. You cant have the former without the latter and just because Apple wont reveal information to the government doesnt mean that information could never be hacked by criminals.
I mean you dont even have to be famous or a public figure to have some stranger hating on you just because they can safely do it from behind closed doors hidden using fake names and false social media profiles. It truly is a new phenomenon that is on the rise everywhere.
While the risk of cyber attacks is growing its important for small and mediumsized businesses to keep perspective and focus on the real threats that are most likely to target their operations.
If youre feeling a little paranoid about identity theft your concerns are justified. Youre not being paranoid these threats are real. Oftentimes in fact more frequently than you might guess thieves get through by social engineering.
As most Americans log on after a long holiday weekend from work they are eager for all kinds of sales and savings. They probably arent thinking about cyberterrorists rogue states and great powers eager to take the U.S.A. down a peg or two. But maybe they should.
As we head into the final stretch of largescale financial and retail breaches are topofmind for many of us especially as we get ready for holiday shopping. But here is another type of identity theft that all consumers should be aware of and begin to monitor for medical identity theft.
Yes there was something wrong but it wasnt with me and my cyber sex was nothing more than a symptom of something bigger. It was my way of showing that I felt out of control and helpless.
Cyberransom is a relatively new crime on Americas digital shores and it is spreading fast. While ransomware has actually been around for almost years its mostly been limited to Russia and parts of Europe until now.
James Comey director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation said Monday the agency is grappling with the question of how to amend its hiring polic.
While it can be a source of embarrassment when family stories go around the dinner table the advent of social media makes that table very big and surely you dont know everyone whos been invited to dinner.
I dont believe Aaron Swartz ever wanted to become a martyr. He just wanted to live within a world that he believed he could fix a world that was technically malleable and hackable where he could be active and ingenious even if that reform effort might involve a few false steps.
We need our next generation to not only think about data protection but how to manage the sharing of data so we can continue to enjoy and embrace this connected world.
A yearold California man propositioned a yearold girl with a lewd request on Facebook over the weekend police say.
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more.
An East Chicago man was sentenced Wednesday to five years in prison for possession of cocaine and escape.
Terrance Kevin Ronald Strong Jr. admitted that he encountered a Gary police Patrolman John Artibey as he patrolled on Aug. near the Indiana University Northwest Campus in Gary. Artibey saw an IUN officer detaining several people near the officers car. Artibey offered his assistance and recognized Strong from a previous arrest.
During a patdown search Artibey found a substance in Strongs possession that tested positive for cocaine and weighed . gross grams.
The owner of this website thehacktimes.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beceddua.
Head even Iam planning to lodge a complaint with Cyber Crime Station Hyderabad. This is going out of limits now.
But he is openly challenging the whole setup. He is exposing all the loop holes in this MMB setup. If Mods dont have the technology to ban a IP address well they should take the matter with cyber crime station near by.
I think such incidences should be reported to cyber crime team. this is basically unlawful hacking of some site. seems moderator is doing nothing about this kind of activities.
polite request for not repeating the criminal offence. Hence we are reporting this issue to the concerned person at MMB chairman of Network Press Council of India and Cyber Crime Investigation Cell.
Not replying to person abusing is difficult when there is personal attack by calling names of family members. So people respond. saving a screenshot and marking offensive is best strategy. And file FIR under Cyber Crime law will end this.
Please google addresses of cyber crime cells of your city and lodge a complain if any one abuses you. Even certain websites provide detail information of your rights and responsibilities.
will make mods aware and that ID will be blocked. This way we can protect good boarders. Do not loose your temper and abuse others in reply. Just mark messages offensive. If any personal comments heart you then you can complain to cyber crime cell of Indian police. Because to create email ID you need cell
Better to save the glorysanity of your M Site by controlling this menace otherwise it will be very late where no genuine boarder will come here to advise to other coboarder. Decision is yours.
Do not feel bad the below act shows the mental state of few persons whose business had been affected for last few months due to my superhit calls. I have taken the screenshots for all the pages and reporting it to cyber crime cell if MMB Mods are not taking any action against
Copyright eEighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles photos videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited.
How can I avoid something like the recent ADP W data hack from happening to me with my employer
Reports of Salman Khan s upcoming film Sultan being leaked online has been making rounds as the f.
Dar es Salaam. The government has defended the Cyber Crime Act of that is mostly perceived as a draconian law because it does not show mercy to people who misuse Information Communication Technology. 
Home Affairs deputy permanent secretary Simba Yahaya said this at an African Security Summit .
He said ICT had influenced human interaction to attain and give information and also encouraged vices in the globe including Tanzania. ICT has brought about huge developments in the financial sector which has managed to bridge the gap of financial inclusion that faced the country for many decades he said.
However despite the positive impact he noted that ICT had also encouraged terrorism and money laundering which entailed coordinated efforts in planning and focused policies to be able to tackle Cyber Crime not only in the country but the globe at large.
He stressed that another way of addressing the problem was the enactment of the Cyber Crime act which obviously would not suit everybody positively especially those intending to commit unlawful acts.
The public should understand that all swords have two sides and we intend to deal accordingly with people who want to use ICT to harm others either indecently or through seditious acts he said.
Meanwhile Oracles Senior Vice President for Africa Mr Janusz Nacklicki said that Cyber security is one of the major challenges firms are facing in the current business environment.
Many people believe that the growing influence of China on the Tanzanian economy and global
Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein has urged local entrepreneurs to respect their customers by
Cybercrime also called computer crime the use of a computer as an instrument to further illegal ends such as committing fraud trafficking in child pornography and intellectual property stealing identities or violating privacy. Cybercrime especially through the Internet has grown in importance as the computer has become central to commerce entertainment and government.
Because of the early and widespread adoption of computers and the Internet in the United States most of the earliest victims and villains of cybercrime were Americans. By the st century though hardly a hamlet remained anywhere in the world that had not been touched by cybercrime of one sort or another.
New technologies create new criminal opportunities but few new types of crime. What distinguishes cybercrime from traditional criminal activity Obviously one difference is the use of the digital computer but technology alone is insufficient for any distinction that might exist between different realms of criminal activity. Criminals do not need a computer to commit fraud traffic in child pornography and intellectual property steal an identity or violate someones privacy. All those activities existed before the cyber prefix became ubiquitous. Cybercrime especially involving the Internet represents an extension of existing criminal behaviour alongside some novel illegal activities.
In the Council of Europe together with government representatives from the United States Canada and Japan drafted a preliminary international treaty covering computer crime. Around the world civil libertarian groups immediately protested provisions in the treaty requiring Internet service providers ISPs to store information on their customers transactions and to turn this information over on demand. Work on the treaty proceeded nevertheless and on November the Council of Europe Cybercrime Convention was signed by states. Additional protocols covering terrorist activities and racist and xenophobic cybercrimes were proposed in . In addition various national laws such as the USA PATRIOT Act of have expanded law enforcements power to monitor and protect computer networks.
Cybercrime ranges across a spectrum of activities. At one end are crimes that involve fundamental breaches of personal or corporate privacy such as assaults on the integrity of information held in digital depositories and the use of illegally obtained digital information to blackmail a firm or individual. Also at this end of the spectrum is the growing crime of identity theft. Midway along the spectrum lie transactionbased crimes such as fraud trafficking in child pornography digital piracy money laundering and counterfeiting. These are specific crimes with specific victims but the criminal hides in the relative anonymity provided by the Internet. Another part of this type of crime involves individuals within corporations or government bureaucracies deliberately altering data for either profit or political objectives. At the other end of the spectrum are those crimes that involve attempts to disrupt the actual workings of the Internet. These range from spam hacking and denial of service attacks against specific sites to acts of cyberterrorismthat is the use of the Internet to cause public disturbances and even death. Cyberterrorism focuses upon the use of the Internet by nonstate actors to affect a nations economic and technological infrastructure. Since the September attacks of public awareness of the threat of cyberterrorism has grown dramatically.
While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.
The Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section CCIPS is responsible for implementing the Departments national strategies in combating computer and intellectual property crimes worldwide. CCIPS prevents investigates and prosecutes computer crimes by working with other government agencies the private sector academic institutions and foreign counterparts. Section attorneys work to improve the domestic and international infrastructurelegal technological and operationalto pursue network criminals most effectively. The Sections enforcement responsibilities against intellectual property crimes are similarly multifaceted. Intellectual Property IP has become one of the principal U.S. economic engines and the nation is a target of choice for thieves of material protected by copyright trademark or tradesecret designation. In pursuing all these goals CCIPS attorneys regularly run complex investigations resolve unique legal and investigative issues raised by emerging computer and telecommunications technologies litigate cases provide litigation support to other prosecutors train federal state and local law enforcement personnel comment on and propose legislation and initiate and participate in international efforts to combat computer and intellectual property crime.
Copyright eEighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles photos videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited.
The purpose of me writing this incident in so much detail is for the fact that everyone uses social media and there are very high chances that you or your friends or your dear ones can face similar situation. We must not ignore these incidents and must encourage the person facing such issues to bring it to the attention of the authorities so that they will rectify such anti social elements of the society.
A big thanks to Raghuveer Sir and his entire team for a prompt action they have taken. This is a very good example that the protection and security provided by the highly skilled and responsible officers of Cyber Crime Police is not restricted by the geographical boundaries. Their widespread protection is always there nationwide and also for the citizens who are residing out of the country. We all are extremely proud of you and your entire team Sir. Hats off. Jai hind....
For more information on a Chicago criminal defense attorney click here.
India Cases Internet Crime Information Technology Act Lawyers in Jaipur and Rajasthan High Court Supreme Courts Cyber crime Criminals Amendment Legal Consultants Consultancy Advocates Website Laws
Legal Services Outsourcing Cyber crime Criminals Terrorism IT act
Technological advancements have created new possibilities for criminal activity in particular the criminal misuse of information technologies
with the logical arithmetical or memory function resources of a computer
without the permission of either the rightful owner or the person in charge
network is hacking. Hackers write or use readymade computer programs to attack the target computer. They possess the desire to destruct and they get the kick out of such destruction. Some hackers hack for personal monetary gains such as to stealing the credit card information transferring money from various bank accounts to their own account followed
that are quiet damping. The programs of this kind are called as Trojans.
When the victim unknowingly runs the server on its machine the attacker will then use the Client to connect to the Server and start using the
but some functions of the trojans use the UDP protocol as well.
make copies of itself and spread into other programs is called virus.
originated from one source when it was actually sent from another source.
as an attachment or by sending a link of website which on visiting
repeatedly sending an identical email message to a particular address.
handle. This causes the resource to crash thereby denying access of service
courts Information Technology Act cyber crime topics cyber crime lectures cyber crime news Mr. Vivek Tripathi
She replaces Alia Bhatt as the most sensational celebrity in online search results of . In the surprise moves this year were Shraddha Kapoors meteoric rise to number two from number last year and Kapil Sharmas number three position marking the only TV personality to make to the list a statement said.
Cyber criminals keep a lookout for ways to take advantage of consumer interest around popular culture events including award shows TV show premieres film music launches celebrity breakups and more Intel Security said. 
The report found that this year almost . per cent of all links generated while evaluating the top ten celebrity names coupled with search terms Torrent HD Download and Free MP led to malware ridden or suspicious sites. Cyber criminals capitalise on consumer interest around popular culture by luring unsuspecting consumers to risky sites to steal sensitive personal data Intel Security Group India Engineering Centre head Venkat Krishnapur said. 
Others in the list include Jacqueline Fernandez Kangana Ranaut Hrithik Roshan Deepika Padukone Emran Hashmi Sunny Leone Alia Bhatt Aamir Khan and Kareena Kapoor. The report said users must beware of clicking on third party links and ensure they use web protection that notifies them of risky sites or links before they visit them. Only download videos from wellknown legitimate sites.Use caution when searching for Torrent. This term is by far the highest virusprone search term it said. 
Also do not log in or provide other information like credit card email home address Facebook login to get access to content it added. Such requests are a common tactic for phishing that could lead to identity theft it said.
Israeli researchers have developed malware capable of transmitting data stolen from an airgapped computer by manipulating the speed of its CPU and chassis cooling fans.
Argentina the United States and Vietnam were among the top producers of zombie IP addresses following Russia. 
Researchers examining SNSLocker ransomware discovered credentials of the server within the malwares source code.
As cybercriminals pursue methods that yield the most effective nearterm gains phishing emails and ransomware prove an irresistible cocktail for cybercriminals as a new report demonstrates.
SWIFT CEO Gottfried Leibbrandt said the organization is considering whether it will exclude from its network banks that have demonstrated weak information security.
A House committee is investigating the Federal Reserve Bank of New Yorks operations related to the cybertheft of million from the Bank of Bangladesh.
A Federal judge denied a motion filed by Mozilla last week requesting that the FBI privately disclose a security vulnerability used in a child pornography case.
U.S. and Russian officials will meet this week in Geneva to discuss cybersecurity issues though not as a restart of the Bilateral Presidential Commission a State Department official told SCMagazine.com.
A new report warns of the next phase of ransomware an era of selfpropagating ransomware or cryptoworms.
Benjamin Earnest Nichols a yearold man from Oklahoma City faces a year federal prison sentence for launching a DDoS attack against the website owned by a security researcher.
The month project will be closely watched by The Home Office who are keen to use the lessons learnt here to fight cybercrime nationally.
Hackers reportedly accessed computer networks at U.S. law firms including Cravath Swaine Moore LLP and Weil Gotshal Manges LLP.
A report finds terrorists are largely uninterested in using readily available communication methods found on the dark web.
The proEastern European ransomware Cerber has been spotted on dark web Russian forums offering ransomware as a service according to the cyber intelligence firm Sensecy.
York Hospital in Maine reported a breach of employees identifying information but said patient information was not targeted.
Sen. David Vitter RLa. is blocking the Senate vote on Beth Coberts nomination as director of the Office of Personnel Management OPM in a move that is seen as politically motivated.
Sons Caliphate Army a group of proISIS hackers threatened Facebook and Twitter in retaliation for the companies efforts shutting down ISISaffiliated social media accounts was posted on the groups Telegram channel.
The rollout of fingerprint ID and voice recognition to authenticate customers is a step change in online security but wont solve all our cyber problems.
Tech support scams often involve malvertising attacks using common exploit kits like Angler EK or Nuclear EK but scammers can also lure victims through less complex exploits.
Online dating fraud declines during the Valentines Day season according to new research on romance scams.
Cyber Caliphate announced in a post on its Telegram account on Friday that he jihadi hacking group would migrate communications to Threema.
William Noonan U.S. Secret Service says organizations must work together to prevent new threats.
Malware based on opensource code created for educational purposes only has been spotted in the wild by Bleeping Computers Lawrence Abrams.
The FBI is facing allegations from the press that it hacked into the TorMail accounts of innocent people during a investigation.
A number of remote code execution bugs in several models of FRITZBox broadband routers could allow intruders to place phone calls through the device.
Researchers at IBM XForce have spotted an aggressive infection campaign targeting major Japanese banks.
In a phishing campaign scammers are using fake emails from the Internal Revenue Service IRS to launch attacks that download Kovter and CoreBot malware.
After Obamas threat to make it harder for terrorists to use technology to escape from justice ISIS hacking group issued new cyber suggestions.
Join for a special online discussion with Chief Technology Officer Amrit Williams and CMO Mitch Bishop as they discuss what are expected to be some of the most pressing security issues in and advice on how to plan ahead.
IBM will allow outside developers to create custom applications on QRadar the companys security analytics platform.
A linen services company in New Hampshire pleaded guilty to hacking into the computer server of a similarly named but smaller competitor.
SC Magazine arms information security professionals with the indepth unbiased business and technical information they need to tackle the countless security challenges they face and establish risk management and compliance postures that underpin overall business strategies.
The threat from cyber attacks is on the rise. On Friday the Wall Street Journal reported that companies had been the victims of a hacking operation that was part of an month global attack that exposed vast amounts of personal and corporate secrets and intellectual property to theft.The attacks which originated in Europe and China targeted major corporations and government agencies including pharmaceutical giants Merck Co. and.Read More.
Filed under Cyber Crime News Risk Management News Tagged with Cyber Crime News data theft electronic compromise incident response Security Breach
In additional cyber security news the Wall Street Journal reported today that Citibank was the victim of a hack by what appears to be a Russian cyber gang that resulted in the loss of tens of millions of dollars.The attack also targeted two other entities at least one of which is a government agency. The attack was discovered over the summer but could have taken place as much as a year earlier. The case is being investigated by the FBI with.Read More.
Filed under Cyber Crime News Information Security News Tagged with Citibank Cyber Crime News Information Security News Juval Aviv
Seven months into his term President Obama has appointed Howard A. Schmidt to the role of cyber security chief. He will report to the National Security Council and will have regular access to the President.Mr. Schmidt is an industry veteran who previously served the Bush White House. He was formerly the chief information security officer at Ebay the chief information officer at Microsoft and worked in computer security for the Air Force the.Read More.
Filed under Cyber Crime News Information Security News Tagged with cyber security Cyber Security Czar Howard A Shmidt Juval Aviv
What your employees know about your business might keep you up at night if you really thought about it. In some cases the employee may have greater targeted knowledge or access to data than the owners principals executive team or directors.What your employees know about your business may be of strategic value and provide that competitive edge. It may be the special sauce that took the company years to develop and it may walk out the door prior.Read More.
Filed under Cyber Crime News Information Security News Risk Management News Tagged with Credit Card Data cyber risk cyber security data theft perimeter security
Most individuals who use a computer have received erroneous emails claiming they have won some prize need to verify online banking credentials are being contacted to accept funds from some far away estate that has no rightful owner or some other elaborate story. The list goes on. The email based scams are referred to as phishing attacks. These attacks are carried out by criminals who are looking to farm sensitive information from unsuspecting.Read More.
Filed under Cyber Crime News Risk Management News Tagged with online fraud social engineering vishing
According to the Wall Street Journals Siobhan Gorman August Cole and Yochi Dreazen computer spies have broken into the Pentagons billion Joint Strike Fighter project. This is the Defense Departments costliest weapons program ever how can this be Tell me its not true.Was not enough of a wake up call The events of that day cast doubt on the US governments ability to protect its people. Now.Read More.
Filed under Cyber Crime News Information Security News Risk Management News Tagged with Cyber Crime News data theft electronic compromise espionage
According the the Washington Post and reporters Joby Warrick and Walter Pincus Senate Legislation Would Federalize Cybersecurity April there is a new Senate Bill which proposes mandatory security standards for private industry. The legislation cosponsored by Senate Commerce Committee Chairman John D. Rockefeller IV DW.Va. and Sen. Olympia J. Snowe RMaine was drafted with White House input.
Filed under Cyber Crime News Information Security News Risk Management News Tagged with Cyber Crime News cyber risk data theft electronic compromise espionage
Recent news indicates that two large payment processors have become the victims of electronic compromise.According to RBS WorldPay in a press release the company states Certain personal information of approximately . million cardholders and other individuals may have been affected and of this group Social Security numbers of . million people may have been accessed.Heartland in a statement to the public indicated that it contacted more.Read More.
Filed under Cyber Crime News Information Security News Risk Management News Tagged with Cyber Crime News data theft electronic compromise espionage
A recent article in Information Week briefly discusses last weeks reversal by a federal appeals court of a lower courts order that credit card processor Fifth Third Bancorp did not have to pay for new credit cards for some cardholders whose data was stolen during a hacking incident at BJs Wholesale Club. The suit was originally brought by the Pennsylvania State Employees Credit Union.
Filed under Cyber Crime News IT Security Technology News Tagged with Credit Card Data Payment Card Industry PCI Security Breach
Copyright Information Defense All Rights Reserved An Associate Member of Protector Services Group
A report sponsored by McAfee estimates that the annual damage to the global economy is at billion however a Microsoft report shows that such surveybased estimates are hopelessly flawed and exaggerate the true losses by orders of magnitude.thirdparty source needed Approximately . billion was lost in to online credit and debit card fraud in the US. In a study by Juniper Research estimated that the costs of cybercrime could be as high as . trillion by .thirdparty source needed
Most measures show that the problem of cybercrime continues to worsen. However Eric Jardine argues that the frequency cost and severity of cybercrime cannot be well understood as counts expressed in absolute terms. Instead these numbers need to be normalized around the growing size of cyberspace in the same way that crime statistics in the physical world are expressed as a proportion of a population i.e. . murders per people. Jardine argues that since cyberspace has been rapidly increasing in size each year absolute numbers i.e. a count saying there are cyberattacks in present a worse picture of the security of cyberspace than numbers normalized around the actual size of the Internet ecosystem i.e. a rate of cybercrime. His proposed intuition is that if cyberspace continues to grow you should actually expect cybercrime counts to continue to increase because there are more users and activity online but that as a proportion of the size of the ecosystem crime might actually be becoming less of a problem.thirdparty source needed
Other forms of fraud may be facilitated using computer systems including bank fraud carding identity theft extortion and theft of classified information.
A variety of internet scams many based on phishing and social engineering target consumers and businesses.
Government officials and information technology security specialists have documented a significant increase in Internet problems and server scans since early . But there is a growing concern among federal officialswho that such intrusions are part of an organized effort by cyberterrorists foreign intelligence services or other groups to map potential security holes in critical systems. A cyberterrorist is someone who intimidates or coerces a government or organization to advance his or her political or social objectives by launching a computerbased attack against computers networks or the information stored on them.
Cyberterrorism in general can be defined as an act of terrorism committed through the use of cyberspace or computer resources Parker . As such a simple propaganda in the Internet that there will be bomb attacks during the holidays can be considered cyberterrorism. There are also hacking activities directed towards individuals families organized by groups within networks tending to cause fear among people demonstrate power collecting information relevant for ruining peoples lives robberies blackmailing etc.citation needed
Cyberextortion occurs when a website email server or computer system is subjected to or threatened with repeated denial of service or other attacks by malicious hackers. These hackers demand money in return for promising to stop the attacks and to offer protection. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation cyberextortionists are increasingly attacking corporate websites and networks crippling their ability to operate and demanding payments to restore their service. More than cases are reported each month to the FBI and many go unreported in order to keep the victims name out of the public domain. Perpetrators typically use a distributed denialofservice attack.
The U.S. Department of Defense DoD notes that the cyberspace has emerged as a nationallevel concern through several recent events of geostrategic significance. Among those are included the attack on Estonias infrastructure in allegedly by Russian hackers. In August Russia again allegedly conducted cyberattacks this time in a coordinated and synchronized kinetic and nonkinetic campaign against the country of Georgia. Fearing that such attacks may become the norm in future warfare among nationstates the concept of cyberspace operations impacts and will be adapted by warfighting military commanders in the future.
When the individual is the main target of cybercrime the computer can be considered as the tool rather than the target. These crimes generally involve less technical expertise. Human weaknesses are generally exploited. The damage dealt is largely psychological and intangible making legal action against the variants more difficult. These are the crimes which have existed for centuries in the offline world. Scams theft and the likes have existed even before the development in hightech equipment. The same criminal has simply been given a tool which increases his potential pool of victims and makes him all the harder to trace and apprehend.
The unsolicited sending of bulk email for commercial purposes spam is unlawful in some jurisdictions.
Phishing is mostly propagated via email. Phishing emails may contain links to other websites that are affected by malware. Or they may contain links to fake online banking or other websites used to steal private account information.
The content of websites and other electronic communications may be distasteful obscene or offensive for a variety of reasons. In some instances these communications may be legal.
The extent to which these communications are unlawful varies greatly between countries and even within nations. It is a sensitive area in which the courts can become involved in arbitrating between groups with strong beliefs.
One area of Internet pornography that has been the target of the strongest efforts at curtailment is child pornography.
Whereas content may be offensive in a nonspecific way harassment directs obscenities and derogatory comments at specific individuals focusing for example on gender race religion nationality sexual orientation. This often occurs in chat rooms through newsgroups and by sending hate email to interested parties. Harassment on the internet also includes revenge porn.
There are instances where committing a crime using a computer can lead to an enhanced sentence. For example in the case of United States v. Neil Scott Kramer Kramer was served an enhanced sentence according to the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines Manual G.b for his use of a cell phone to persuade induce entice coerce or facilitate the travel of the minor to engage in prohibited sexual conduct. Kramer argued that this claim was insufficient because his charge included persuading through a computer device and his cellular phone technically is not a computer. Although Kramer tried to argue this point U.S. Sentencing Guidelines Manual states that the term computer means an electronic magnetic optical electrochemically or other high speed data processing device performing logical arithmetic or storage functions and includes any data storage facility or communications facility directly related to or operating in conjunction with such device.
Connecticut was the U.S. state to pass a statute making it a criminal offense to harass someone by computer. Michigan Arizona and Virginia and South Carolina have also passed laws banning harassment by electronic means.
Harassment as defined in the U.S. computer statutes is typically distinct from cyberbullying in that the former usually relates to a persons use a computer or computer network to communicate obscene vulgar profane lewd lascivious or indecent language or make any suggestion or proposal of an obscene nature or threaten any illegal or immoral act while the latter need not involve anything of a sexual nature.
Although freedom of speech is protected by law in most democratic societies in the US this is done by the First Amendment it does not include all types of speech. In fact spoken or written true threat speechtext is criminalized because of intent to harm or intimidate that also applies for online or any type of network related threats in written text or speech. The US Supreme Court definition of true threat is statements where the speaker means to communicate a serious expression of an intent to commit an act of unlawful violence to a particular individual or group.
Darknet markets are used to buy and sell recreational drugs online. Some drug traffickers use encrypted messaging tools to communicate with drug mules. The dark web site Silk Road was a major online marketplace for drugs before it was shut down by law enforcement then reopened under new management and then shut down by law enforcement again.
One of the highest profiled banking computer crime occurred during a course of three years beginning in . The chief teller at the Park Avenue branch of New Yorks Union Dime Savings Bank embezzled over . million from hundreds of accounts.
A hacking group called MOD Masters of Deception allegedly stole passwords and technical data from Pacific Bell Nynex and other telephone companies as well as several big credit agencies and two major universities. The damage caused was extensive one company Southwestern Bell suffered losses of alone.
In a nineteenyearold UCLA student used his PC to break into a Defense Department international communications system.
Between and the Newscorp satellite pay to view encrypted SKYTV service was hacked several times during an ongoing technological arms race between a panEuropean hacking group and Newscorp. The original motivation of the hackers was to watch Star Trek reruns in Germany which was something which Newscorp did not have the copyright to allow.
On March the Melissa worm infected a document on a victims computer then automatically sent that document and a copy of the virus spread via email to other people.
In February an individual going by the alias of MafiaBoy began a series denialofservice attacks against high profile websites including Yahoo Amazon.com Dell Inc. ETRADE eBay and CNN. About fifty computers at Stanford University and also computers at the University of California at Santa Barbara were amongst the zombie computers sending pings in DDoS attacks. On August Canadian federal prosecutors charged MafiaBoy with counts of illegal access to computers plus a total of ten counts of mischief to data for his attacks.
The Russian Business Network RBN was registered as an internet site in . Initially much of its activity was legitimate. But apparently the founders soon discovered that it was more profitable to host illegitimate activities and started hiring its services to criminals. The RBN has been described by VeriSign as the baddest of the bad. It offers web hosting services and internet access to all kinds of criminal and objectionable activities with an individual activities earning up to million in one year. It specialized in and in some cases monopolized personal identity theft for resale. It is the originator of MPack and an alleged operator of the now defunct Storm botnet.
On March Spanish investigators arrested clarification needed in infection of over million computers around the world. The botnet of infected computers included PCs inside more than half of the Fortune companies and more than major banks according to investigators.
In August the international investigation Operation Delego operating under the aegis of the Department of Homeland Security shut down the international pedophile ring Dreamboard. The website had approximately members and may have distributed up to terabytes of child pornography roughly equivalent to DVDs. To date this is the single largest U.S. prosecution of an international child pornography ring arrests were made worldwide.
On March at Lassiter High School two students were accused of impersonation of a staff member via cybercrime but both claimed they were uninvolved. The offense was made a felony in the Cobb County School District two months after the impersonation had happened. Shortly afterwards the head of the LHS School Board said The teacher just wouldnt do this at all. The case ended on May and no evidence was found.
In June LinkedIn and eHarmony were attacked compromising million password hashes. passwords were cracked and . million EHarmony passwords were posted online.
In January Zappos.com experienced a security breach after as many as million customers credit card numbers personal information billing and shipping addresses had been compromised.
April saw the Associated Press Twitter accounts hacking to release a hoax tweet about fictional attacks in the White House that left President Obama injured. This erroneous tweet resulted in a brief plunge of points from the Dow Jones Industrial Average removal of billion from SP index and the temporary suspension of their Twitter account. The Dow Jones later restored its session gains.
A computer can be a source of evidence see digital forensics. Even where a computer is not directly used for criminal purposes it may contain records of value to criminal investigators in the form of a logfile. In most countriescitation needed Internet Service Providers are required by law to keep their logfiles for a predetermined amount of time. For example a European wide Data Retention Directive applicable to all EU member states states that all Email traffic should be retained for a minimum of months.
Due to easily exploitable laws cybercriminals use developing countries in order to evade detection and prosecution from law enforcement. In developing countries such as the Philippines laws against cybercrime are weak or sometimes nonexistent. These weak laws allow cybercriminals to strike from international borders and remain undetected. Even when identified these criminals avoid being punished or extradited to a country such as the United States that has developed laws that allow for prosecution. While this proves difficult in some cases agencies such as the FBI have used deception and subterfuge to catch criminals. For example two Russian hackers had been evading the FBI for some time. The FBI set up a fake computing company based in Seattle Washington. They proceeded to lure the two Russian men into the United States by offering them work with this company. Upon completion of the interview the suspects were arrested outside of the building. Clever tricks like this are sometimes a necessary part of catching cybercriminals when weak legislation makes it impossible otherwise.
President Barack Obama released in an executive order in April to combat cybercrime. The executive order allows the United States to freeze assets of convicted cybercriminals and block their economic activity within the United States. This is some of the first solid legislation that combats cybercrime in this way.
The European Union adopted directive EU. All offences of the directive and other definitions and procedural institutions are also in the Council of Europes Convention on Cybercrime.
Penalties for computer related crimes in New York State can range from a fine and a short period of jail time for a Class A misdemeanor such as unauthorized use of a computer up to computer tampering in the first degree which is a Class C felony and can carry to years in prison.citation needed
However some hackers have been hired as information security experts by private companies due to their inside knowledge of computer crime a phenomenon which theoretically could create perverse incentives. A possible counter to this is for courts to ban convicted hackers from using the Internet or computers even after they have been released from prison though as computers and the Internet become more and more central to everyday life this type of punishment may be viewed as more and more harsh and draconian. However nuanced approaches have been developed that manage cyberoffender behavior without resorting to total computer andor Internet bans. These approaches involve restricting individuals to specific devices which are subject to computer monitoring andor computer searches by probation andor parole officers.
As technology advances and more people rely on the internet to store sensitive information such as banking or credit card information criminals are going to attempt to steal that information. Cybercrime is not only becoming more of a threat to people in The U.S. but also people across the world. Raising awareness about how information is being protected and the tactics criminals use to steal that information is important in todays world. According to the FBIs Internet Crime Complaint Center in there were complaints filed. With all the claims combined there was a reported total loss of . But yet cybercrime doesnt seem to be on the average persons radar. There are . million cyberattacks annually that means that there are over attacks a day attacks every hour or nearly three attacks every minute. Anybody who uses the internet for any reason can be a victim which is why it is important to be aware of how one is being protected while online.
Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan Honorable Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh dedicated C.C.T.N.S. Project to the citizen Police forces of Madhya Pradesh During the IPS Service Meet .
Cyber crime is an evil having its origin in the growing dependence on computers in modern life. In a day and age when everything from microwave ovens and refrigerators to nuclear power plants is being run on computers cyber crime has assumed rather sinister implications.
To put it simply we can say that cyber crime is an unlawful act or acts wherein the computer is either a tool or a target or both.
Cyber crimes involve criminal activities that are traditional in nature these can be theft defamationfraud forgery and mischief all of which are subject to the Indian Penal Code. The abuse of computers has also given birth to a number of new age crimes that are addressed in the Information Technology Act .
The Computer as a Targetusing a computer to attack other computers. which is called. Hacking VirusWorm attacks DOS attack etc.
Secondly The computer as a weapon using a computer to commit real world crimes on actual people e.g. Cyber Terrorism IPR violations Credit card frauds EFT frauds Pornography etc.
Technological advancements have created new possibilities for criminal activity in particular the criminal misuse of information technologies such as
Access means gaining entry into instructing or communicating with the logical arithmetical or memory function resources of a computer computer system or computer network.
Unauthorized access would therefore mean any kind of access without the permission of either the rightful owner or the person in charge of a computer computer system or computer network.
Every act committed towards breaking into a computer andor network is hacking. Hackers write or use readymade computer programs to attack the target computer. They possess the desire to destruct and they get the kick out of such destruction. Some hackers hack for personal monetary gains such as to stealing the credit card information transferring money from various bank accounts to their own account followed by withdrawal of money.
By hacking web server taking control on another persons website called as web hijacking
The program that act like something useful but do the things that are quiet damping. The programs of this kind are called as Trojans.
Trojans come in two parts a Client part and a Server part. When the victim unknowingly runs the server on its machine the attacker will then use the Client to connect to the Server and start using the trojan.
TCPIP protocol is the usual protocol type used for communications but some functions of the trojans use the UDP protocol as well.
A program that has capability to infect other programs and make copies of itself and spread into other programs is called virus.
Programs that multiply like viruses but spread from computer to computer are called as worms.
Email IRC related crimes these can be of different kinds listing below a few.
Email spoofing refers to email that appears to have been originated from one source when it was actually sent from another source. Please Read 
Email spamming refers to sending email to thousands and thousands of users similar to a chain letter.
Emails are used to send viruses Trojans etc through emails as an attachment or by sending a link of website which on visiting downloads malicious code.
Email bombing is characterized by abusers repeatedly sending an identical email message to a particular address.
Flooding a computer resource with more requests than it can handle. This causes the resource to crash thereby denying access of service to authorized users.
Welcome to the largest Database of Cyber Law and Cases from India. We publish cyber law cases news from India. Send your suggestions articles news
Computer security specialists warn that hackers are using fake YouTube pages to trick people into opening their machines to diabolical software.A deceptive YouTube attack evolving as it spreads on the Internet is part of a growing trend of hackers to prowl popular online social networking communities in which people trustingly share web links and miniprograms.Trend Micro software threat research manager Jamz Yaneza told AFP on Thursday that We are seeing tools like this not just for YouTube but for MySpace Facebook America Online instant messaging .Hackers using the YouTube attack send people links to what are said to be mustsee snippets at the Googleowned videosharing website.The links instead connect to convincingly realistic replicas of YouTube pages and tell people that a software update is needed to view a requested video.Agreeing to the update lets the hacker install malicious software that could log keystrokes steal data or even take over peoples computers according to David Perry of Trend Micro.Victims are not likely to catch onto the invasion since the hackers software is able to stealthily link to the real YouTube website and play a promised video.So please beware of the links that you got from friend or the other onthe internet. Be sure that the link is fake or not just to protect yourself from the hackers.
Welcome everyone to my blog hereThis space provides you cybercrime news which I collect from the internet and I may plus my opinion about that news.For anyone who areThai you can visit the Thai version of this blog and enjoy the news in your own language there.Some articles about cyber crime laws computer forensics and malware alert maybe found here too.Hope you guys enjoy reading here.
Cyber crime featured heavily in security news coverage in and continued to do so in with cyber criminals.
Enjoy this article as well as all of our content including EGuides news tips and more.
By submitting my Email address I confirm that I have read and accepted the Terms of Use and Declaration of Consent.
By submitting your email address you agree to receive emails regarding relevant topic offers from TechTarget and its partners. You can withdraw your consent at any time. Contact TechTarget at Grove Street Newton MA.
You also agree that your personal information may be transferred and processed in the United States and that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy. 
The production of malware continues on an industrial scale with exploit kits and malware services putting sophisticated attack methods in the hands of relatively unskilled cyber criminals.
However has seen a series of international anticyber crime operations that have demonstrated an unprecedented level cooperation between law enforcement agencies around the world.
These efforts have been boosted by the UKled Joint Cybercrime Action Taskforcewhich is hosted by Europols European Cyber Crime Centre in The Hague.
Law enforcement officers have emphasised that business needs to take cyber crime seriously with every size of company in every sector being targeted.
Despite the advances in law enforcement operations UK police are facing a steep learning curve in their efforts to come to grips with cyberenabled crime.
That challenge is likely to continue as cyber criminals are expected to evolve in a number of ways in with some expected to become information dealers offering rich data sets about individuals to the underground market.
Business needs to take cyber crime very seriously according to Troels Oerting head of EuropolsEuropean Cybercrime Centre.
At some time or other all businesses are likely to be hit by cyber crime as the world becomes increasingly online Oerting told Computer Weekly. Companies that do not think information security is important should reconsider otherwise they could end up going out of business.
The threat of cyber crime is much greater than most people think he said because much of it still goes unreported.
We know of a lot of cyber crimes that are very costly to business that are not reported to the police said Oerting. We also see losses through fraud and other crimes of more than m in some months but these are going unreported.
Oerting believes businesses that invest in the right processes procedures and technologies will be rewarded in the longer term but failure to do so could have devastating consequences.
The cyber crime support industry is becoming increasingly commercialised according to a report published by EuropolsEuropean Cybercrime Centre in September.
Specialists in the virtual underground economy are developing products and services for use by other cyber criminals theInternet Organised Crime Threat AssessmentIOCTA report said.
The reports authors believe this crimeasaservice business model drives innovation and sophistication and provides access to a wide range of services that facilitate almost any type of cyber crime. As a result thebarriers to entryfor cyber crime are being lowered to allow those lacking technical expertise including traditional organised crime groups to conduct cyber crime.
The report also highlighted the abuse of legitimate services and tools such as anonymisation encryption and virtual currencies as well as the abuse of darknets for illicit online trade in drugs weapons stolen goods stolen personal and payment card data forged identity documents and child abuse material.
Just one month into a sixmonth pilot a UKled international cyber crime looked set to become permanent Troels Oerting head of EuropolsEuropean Cybercrime CentreEC said in October.
EC is hosting the Joint Cybercrime Action Taskforce JCatset up in September to coordinate international investigations with partners targeting key cyber crime threats and top targets.
Initiated by EC the EU Cybercrime Taskforce the FBI and the National Crime Agency NCA the JCat is made up of cyber liaison officers from EU states nonEU law enforcement partners and EC.
Oerting said the unit which is led by deputy director of theUKsNational Cyber Crime UnitNCCU Andy Archibald is due for its first evaluation at the end of February .
There are already indications it will be extended for at least another six months but I think it is likely to become permanent as it keeps acquiring cases and we are trying to get European Union EU funding for it he said.
In May the firstever UKwide cyber crime operation netted suspected users of Blackshades malware which is designed to take over control of computers and steal information.
Coordinated by the newNational Crime Agency the weeklong operation in May involved nearly every UK regional organised crime unit as well as Police Scotland and the Metropolitan Police.
The UK investigation was part of global activity targeting developers and prolific users of Blackshades a set of malware tools sold online for less than .
In an operation initiated by the FBI and coordinated in Europe through Eurojust and the European Cybercrime Centre at Europol police forces internationally apprehended dozens of suspected users.
Arrests took place in the UK the Netherlands Belgium Finland Austria Estonia Denmark Canada Chile Croatia and Italy taking the total number of arrests in connection with Blackshades to . The most common Blackshades product is aremote access toolRat which enables cyber criminals to remotely take over and control the operations of an infected computer.
International law enforcers took down several dark markets operating on hidden Tor networks and arrested cyber crime suspects in early November.
Operation Onymous involved law enforcement officers from European states and the US in one of the biggest anticyber crime operations to date.
The operation was aimed at halting the sale distribution and promotion of illegal and harmful items including weapons and drugs through dark marketplaces online.
Operation Onymous was coordinated from Europols European Cybercrime Centre in The Hague and supported by the UKledJoint Cybercrime Action TaskforceJCat. Operation Onymous was JCats second big success in just over a month of a sixmonth pilot and came just weeks after Operation Imperium which resulted in arrests and house searches.
UK police made four arrests in late November as part of an international crackdown on cyber criminals who use malware tools to hijack computers and steal data. The UK raids were led by theNCA and involved officers from a number of police Regional Organised Crime Units ROCUs.
The international operation was coordinated through Europol and focused on the threat posed by tools known asremote access trojans.
Police in Estonia France Romania Latvia Italy and Norway made further arrests. In the UK two yearold men and a yearold woman were arrested in Leeds and a yearold man was arrested in Kent. Police executed a search warrant on a yearold man from Liverpool who had been brought in for voluntary questioning.
The NCA said that in addition to arresting people believed to be using remote access trojans police use a variety of approaches to warn individualsthat any movement into cyber criminality will result in further action.
Law enforcement agencies around the world arrested suspects including around in the UK in the third international cybercrime operation of its kind in late November.
The operation was led by EuropolsEuropean Cybercrime Centre in The Hague and coordinated with the help of Interpol in Singapore and Ameripol in Bogota. The operation was aimed at tackling online fraud and was conducted in collaboration with the airline travel and credit card industries.
More than airlines and countries were involved in the activity which took place at more than airports across the world. The coordinated action targeted criminals suspected of fraudulently purchasing plane tickets online using stolen or fake credit card data. In many cases it was revealed how the credit card fraud has links to or is facilitating other forms of serious crime such as drug trafficking.
The UKsNational Cyber Crime UnitNCCU is open to working with business and other organisations in the private sector according to deputy director Andy Archibald.
Business is welcome to contact us directly about dynamic fastmoving cyber crime in action and we will work with them to ensure they get the most appropriate response he told Computer Weekly.
The NCCU sees a deeper more defined and developed relationship with private sector businesses as crucial not only to identify crimes and patterns of criminal activity but also to tap into specialist skills.
We need to be able to go to organisations in the private sector and ask to work with people with the skills we need in some of our investigations said Archibald. Industry can bring things to the table that we may not be aware of and we will work with the private sector within the law if the solution to an operation is something the private sector can take the lead on.
UK police face a steep learning curve in getting to grips with cyber crime but several initiatives underway are geared to growing capability and capacity theLondon AssemblysPolice and Crime CommitteesOnline Crime Working Groupheard in November.
The working group is gathering evidence on the response of the Metropolitan Police Service to cyberenabled crimes. Asked whether policing is behind the curve when it comes to tacking cyberenabled crimeCollege of PolicingCEO Alex Marshall said it is clear there is an inconsistent response to this threat.
There is much catching up to be done he said with experienced officers increasingly having to deal with complex online and cyber issues which they were never originally trained for.
Marshall said the monthold College of Policing plans to publish new national standards for online investigation and intelligence in to replace outdated standards published in . The college has also developed a huge range of online training courses for police in England and Wales as well as specific courses for different skill areas in cyber or online crime.
Cyber criminals are set to become information dealers in the coming year according to the top cyber security predictions for byWebsense Security Labs.
Websense principal security analyst Carl Leonard said criminals will use the sale of credit card numbers to fund the collection of a broader range of data about victims.
The underground market is flooded with stolen credit card data but that will help fund the collection of fuller richer personal information sets about individuals he told Computer Weekly.
These data sets will be far more lucrative than credit card details on the underground market and will include details of multiple credit cards as well as regional geographic behavioural and personal data. Websense expects this emerging trade in data sets on individuals will enable a new level of identity theft to enable fraud.
By submitting you agree to receive email from TechTarget and its partners. If you reside outside of the United States you consent to having your personal data transferred to and processed in the United States. Privacy
Blockchain observers talk a lot about the widespread impact the technology will have on various industries but pinpointing use .
Bill Caraher CIO and director of operations for a Wisconsin law firm is one believer in the huge impact blockchain technology .
A regular tabletop exercise could help to identify security risks in scenarios relevant to your organization. Expert Bob Wood .
The House Homeland Security Committee officially proposed the creation of a commission to study both sides of the encryption .
Understanding your network is critical and endtoend visibility is the key to accessing the full potential of hybrid IT.
Cisco spends million on technology that secures mobile users access to the cloud. Its the latest addition to the Cisco .
Startup Mist rolls out a wireless service that blends artificial intelligence virtual Bluetooth Low Energy beacons and .
IT teams need to strike a balance between keeping up with the latest technology and being costeffective. Proper IT lifecycle .
With RHEL hitting platform maturity Red Hats future includes Microsoft integration expanded management and a smaller footprint.
Data center challenges come in all shapes and sizes but by keeping close tabs on systems and data admins can be ready to react.
IBM InfoSphere Information Server for Data Integration provides a single unified platform for application integration cloud .
Thanks to ubiquitous mobile technology field data is more readily accessible to ESRIs Survey for ArcGIS. A relief .
SAP Data Services can be used alone or with other SAP products to provide data integration transformation data quality data .
Like most websites Channel uses cookies. In order to deliver a personalised responsive service and to improve the site we remember and store information about how you use it. This is done using simple text files called cookies which sit on your computer. These cookies are completely safe and secure and will never contain any sensitive information. They are used only by Channel or the trusted partners we work with. How to manage cookies 
In order to deliver an optimised service Channel uses cookies. These are simple text files which sit on your computer and are only used by us and our trusted partners. To find out about managing cookies please see our Cookies Policy. 
Hi were nearly there To complete your registration with us please verify your email address. 
Please wait while this video loads. If it doesnt load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.
The criminal network behind it has now been hit by a global police operation. Channel News was given exclusive access to the UKs National Cyber Crime Unit NCCU as it helped in the takedown of the GameOver Zeus Crew a notorious group of computer criminals believed to be based in Russia.
The gang used carefully crafted phishing emails to trick its way on to victims machines often masquerading as urgent messages from HMRC or Companies House. Some corporate victims told Channel News that the emails included specific details about their company to add to their authenticity.
The emails included an attachment or link and when the recipient clicked on it they were infected with GameOver Zeus a powerful new virus. It first checked whether the computers keyboard was set up in Russian and if not it installed a more complex virus which gave the criminal gang complete control over the machine. 
Anything you can do on your computer they can do on your computer without you knowing said Stewart Garrick who has led the NCCUs investigation into the gang. I know of more than computers in the UK infected with this right now.
The virus was used to blackmail victims steal cash from their accounts and then force the infected computer to snare other victims.
Blackmail is a key tactic and the gang was behind a global extortion campaign that snared doctors surgeries lawyers and even police stations. It used the virus to launch Cryptolocker which scrambles the victims files and gives them deadline to pay a ransom of hundreds of pounds to get them back.
Eunice Power a chef in Co Waterford found the contents of her laptop scrambled. This big red screen appeared saying your files have been encrypted. I checked the files and it was all gobbledygook one after the other. I unplugged it thinking that would sort it out but it didnt. 
At this point it was flashing up an amount of time I had hours to pay a ransom. I had an external backup which was plugged in at the time so that was all encrypted. I could feel perspiration coming out through me. I didnt believe anything could be so evil.
The blackmailers demanded payment in the virtual currency Bitcoin. As Mrs Power struggled to make the payment work the countdown hit zero.
Her folders are still intact meaning she can see which photos and documents she lost but when she tries to open them she is confronted with incomprehensible code.
They want to monetise the investment theyve made in getting into your machine said Don Smith of Dell SecureWorks which has spent years tracking the gang. They are absolutely after dollars pounds and euros.
Once installed the virus waits for the computer to connect to online banking and then alerts the criminal who can manipulate what the victim sees on screen throwing up fake pages and tricking them into authorising transfers out of their account.
They are able to inject pages between the user and their bank without anyone being any the wiser said Smith. They can ask for extra login credentials ask for credit card numbers anything to get the victim to a point where money can be transferred out.
One of the victims was AEV a varnish factory in Birkenhead. One of its employees computers was infected with the virus after clicking on an email.
The thieves fake webpages convinced her that her bank login had failed and that she needed to use the keypad which is normally used to make transfers. Unwittingly by using the keypad she authorised two payments to accounts in the Ukraine and Cyprus.
We lost in under three minutes said AEV Managing Director Jonathan Kemp. We started the day normally and by the end of it there was utter horror. 
The business eventually got the money back from the bank but in the meantime after it went public it was contacted by dozens of other fellow victims.
The phone started ringing. Eventually we ended up with or businesses that had been hit. I calculated the losses at something like .m said Mr Kemp.
In fact there are millions of victims around the world. Once infected a victims computer becomes part of the criminals network. It can be used to send instructions to other hacked machines and to send phishing emails to snare more targets. 
This weekend the NCCU in cooperation with tech companies the FBI and other forces around the world moved in to break up the network. They reprogrammed the infected computers to stop them communicating with each other and then with the help of internet companies hit the hackers fallback network of command computers which can send instructions to the hacked machines.
This is the biggest operation Ive been involved with in years in law enforcement said Mr Garrick. Were taking unprecedented steps and its truly global in scale.
The NCCUs hope is that if it can stop the GOZ Crews virus network from receiving updates it will give software and antivirus firms a chance to catch up. Users can then update their software run antivirus programmes and protect themselves from the gang.
Its a window of opportunity said Mr Garrick. But with the criminals able to vanish into cyberspace at the press of a button it seems inevitable they will return soon with newer smarter tactics.
NEW YORK Six people were arrested and charged on Monday for participating in a worldwide ATM heist that stole million from two Middle East banks.
The five men and one woman all residents of the New York City suburb of Yonkers were accused of being members of a global cybercrime organization that stole Mastercard Inc debitcard information according to an announcement from Loretta Lynch the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York.
Robert Nardoza a spokesman for Lynchs office declined to comment on where the cybercrime organization is based saying the investigation was ongoing.
The six arrested Monday were cashers in the scheme withdrawing approximately . million from more than ATMs in New York City according to the U.S. attorneys office.
The hackers stole debit card data from the National Bank of Ras AlKhaimah in the United Arab Emirates and Bank Muscat in Oman in two attacks in December and February according to prosecutors.
They broke into paymentprocessing companies used by the two banks and raised the balances and withdrawal limits on the cards prosecutors said. Crews in more than countries such as the cell arrested Monday then withdrew million between December and December and million between February and February .
Five of the defendants arrested Monday Anthony Diaz Saul Franjul Saul Genao Jaindhi Polanco and Jose Angeley Valerio pleaded not guilty in federal court in Brooklyn to conspiracy to commit access device fraud. Their lawyers were not immediately available for comment.
A sixth defendant Franklyn Ferriera is expected to be arraigned on Tuesday. His age and the identity of his lawyer were not immediately available.
Each faces up to . years in prison and a fine of up to according to the announcement.
Prosecutors said that days after the February attack Franjul packed approximately in cash into luggage that was sent by bus to one of the heists organizers Alberto Yusi LajudPena.
LajudPena also known as Prime and Albertico was murdered April in the Dominican Republic.
After exploiting cyberweaknesses in the financial system to steal millions from ATMs these defendants were packing bags to the brim with stolen cash destined for the cybercriminal organizers of these attacks Lynch said in a statement on Monday.
The arrests came six months after prosecutors in Brooklyn announced charges against eight others in the scheme including LajudPena.
Four other defendants have pleaded guilty to participating in the scheme while three have pleaded not guilty according to Nardoza.
Authorities in Germany arrested two Dutch citizens in February for their involvement in the scheme after they were caught withdrawing money at cash machines in Dusseldorf.
Reporting by Bernard Vaughan Editing by Noeleen Walder Andrew Hay and Leslie Adler
All quotes delayed a minimum of minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays. 
Computer security specialists warn that hackers are using fake YouTube pages to trick people into opening their machines to diabolical software.A deceptive YouTube attack evolving as it spreads on the Internet is part of a growing trend of hackers to prowl popular online social networking communities in which people trustingly share web links and miniprograms.Trend Micro software threat research manager Jamz Yaneza told AFP on Thursday that We are seeing tools like this not just for YouTube but for MySpace Facebook America Online instant messaging .Hackers using the YouTube attack send people links to what are said to be mustsee snippets at the Googleowned videosharing website.The links instead connect to convincingly realistic replicas of YouTube pages and tell people that a software update is needed to view a requested video.Agreeing to the update lets the hacker install malicious software that could log keystrokes steal data or even take over peoples computers according to David Perry of Trend Micro.Victims are not likely to catch onto the invasion since the hackers software is able to stealthily link to the real YouTube website and play a promised video.So please beware of the links that you got from friend or the other onthe internet. Be sure that the link is fake or not just to protect yourself from the hackers.
Welcome everyone to my blog here
This space provides you cybercrime news which I collect from the internet and I may plus my opinion about that news.For anyone who areThai you can visit the Thai version of this blog and enjoy the news in your own language there.Some articles about cyber crime laws computer forensics and malware alert maybe found here too.Hope you guys enjoy reading here.
Dar es Salaam. The government has defended the Cyber Crime Act of that is mostly perceived as a draconian law because it does not show mercy to people who misuse Information Communication Technology. 
Home Affairs deputy permanent secretary Simba Yahaya said this at an African Security Summit .
He said ICT had influenced human interaction to attain and give information and also encouraged vices in the globe including Tanzania. ICT has brought about huge developments in the financial sector which has managed to bridge the gap of financial inclusion that faced the country for many decades he said.
However despite the positive impact he noted that ICT had also encouraged terrorism and money laundering which entailed coordinated efforts in planning and focused policies to be able to tackle Cyber Crime not only in the country but the globe at large.
He stressed that another way of addressing the problem was the enactment of the Cyber Crime act which obviously would not suit everybody positively especially those intending to commit unlawful acts.
The public should understand that all swords have two sides and we intend to deal accordingly with people who want to use ICT to harm others either indecently or through seditious acts he said.
Meanwhile Oracles Senior Vice President for Africa Mr Janusz Nacklicki said that Cyber security is one of the major challenges firms are facing in the current business environment.
Many people believe that the growing influence of China on the Tanzanian economy and global
Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein has urged local entrepreneurs to respect their customers by
Hacking in simple terms means an illegal intrusion into a computer system andor network. There is an equivalent term to hacking i.e. cracking but from Indian Laws perspective there is no difference between the term hacking and cracking. Every act committed towards breaking into a computer andor network is hacking. Hackers write or use readymade computer programs to attack the target computer. They possess the desire to destruct and they get the kick out of such destruction. Some hackers hack for personal monetary gains such as to stealing the credit card information transferring money from various bank accounts to their own account followed by withdrawal of money. They extort money from some corporate giant threatening him to publish the stolen information which is critical in nature. 
The Internet is being highly used by its abusers to reach and abuse children sexually worldwide. The internet is very fast becoming a household commodity in India . Its explosion has made the children a viable victim to the cyber crime. As more homes have access to internet more children would be using the internet and more are the chances of falling victim to the aggression of pedophiles. 
Cyber Stalking can be defined as the repeated acts harassment or threatening behavior of the cyber criminal towards the victim by using internet services. Stalking in General terms can be referred to as the repeated acts of harassment targeting the victim such as following the victim making harassing phone calls killing the victims pet vandalizing victims property leaving written messages or objects. Stalking may be followed by serious violent acts such as physical harm to the victim and the same has to be treated and viewed seriously. It all depends on the course of conduct of the stalker.
This is an act by the criminal who floods the bandwidth of the victims network or fills his email box with spam mail depriving him of the services he is entitled to access or provide
Malicious software that attaches itself to other software. virus worms Trojan Horse Time bomb Logic Bomb Rabbit and Bacterium are the malicious
Theft of software through the illegal copying of genuine programs or the counterfeiting and distribution of products intended to pass for the original.
Internet Relay Chat IRC servers have chat rooms in which people from anywhere the world can come together and chat with each other.
Copying the companys confidential data in order to extort said company for huge amount
The act of sending an email to a user falsely claiming to be an established legitimate enterprise in an attempt to scam the user into surrendering private information that will be used for identity theft. The email directs the user to visit a Web site where they are asked to update personal information such as passwords and credit card social security and bank account numbers that the legitimate organization already has. 
Dar es Salaam. The government has defended the Cyber Crime Act of that is mostly perceived as a draconian law because it does not show mercy to people who misuse Information Communication Technology. 
Home Affairs deputy permanent secretary Simba Yahaya said this at an African Security Summit .
He said ICT had influenced human interaction to attain and give information and also encouraged vices in the globe including Tanzania. ICT has brought about huge developments in the financial sector which has managed to bridge the gap of financial inclusion that faced the country for many decades he said.
However despite the positive impact he noted that ICT had also encouraged terrorism and money laundering which entailed coordinated efforts in planning and focused policies to be able to tackle Cyber Crime not only in the country but the globe at large.
He stressed that another way of addressing the problem was the enactment of the Cyber Crime act which obviously would not suit everybody positively especially those intending to commit unlawful acts.
The public should understand that all swords have two sides and we intend to deal accordingly with people who want to use ICT to harm others either indecently or through seditious acts he said.
Meanwhile Oracles Senior Vice President for Africa Mr Janusz Nacklicki said that Cyber security is one of the major challenges firms are facing in the current business environment.
Many people believe that the growing influence of China on the Tanzanian economy and global
Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein has urged local entrepreneurs to respect their customers by
inextlive Cyber Crime Cyber Crime Hindi News Cyber Crime Latest News Cyber Crime Cyber Crime Cyber Crime Cyber Crime Cyber Crime inextlive .
Director of UWA Centre for Software Practice University of Western Australia
Fellow for Cybersecurity and Internet Governance School of International and Public Affairs Columbia University
Michael Vuolo The Ohio State University and Jeylan T Mortimer University of Minnesota
the Internet using the Internet and by means of the Internet.
bank robbery illegal downloading industrial espionage child pornography kidnapping children via chat rooms scams cyberterrorism creation andor distribution of 
came another revolution of crime where the perpetrators in diverse fashions. The number of users and their diversity Some criminals in the Internet have grown up understanding this superhighway of information unlike the older generation growing problem in the United States. Some crimes committed on the Internet have been exposed to the world and some 
vary in their design and how easily they are able to be committed. Internet crimes can be separated into two different categories. There are crimes that are only committed while being on the Internet and are created exclusively because history are now being brought to a whole different level of innovation and ingenuity. Such new crimes devoted to the Internet are email phishing hijacking domain names virus immistion and cyber vandalism. A couple of these crimes are activities that have been exposed and introduced problems by installing virus protection software and other software that can protect their computers. Other crimes such as email phishing are not as known to the public until an individual receives one of these fraudulent emails. reads the email heshe is informed of a problem with heshe personal account or another individual wants to send the person some of their money and deposit it directly into their account. The email asks for your personal account information and when a person gives this information away.
The statistics that have been obtained and reported about demonstrate the seriousness Internet crimes in the world. Just the phishing emails mentioned in a previous paragraph produce one billion dollars for their perpetrators Dalton . In a FBI survey in early percent of the companies surveyed reported a security breach and percent of those suffered a financial loss Fisher . A national of credit card transactions take place over the Internet but fifty percent of the four billion mentioned before All these finding are just an illustration of the misuse 
The question about how to police these crimes has already been constructed but this task is turning out to be an Act of the government has been trying to track down and stop online criminals. The FBI has tried many programs and investigations in order to deter Internet crime like creating an online crime registry for employers Metchik caught. One reason is that hackers will use one computer in one country to hack another computer in another country. emails which are involved in virus attacks and phishing emails so that a pattern cannot be recognized. An individual can do their best to protect themselves simply by being cautious and careful. Internet users need to watch suspicious emails use unique passwords and run antivirus and antispyware software. Do not open any email or run programs from unknown 
She replaces Alia Bhatt as the most sensational celebrity in online search results of . In the surprise moves this year were Shraddha Kapoors meteoric rise to number two from number last year and Kapil Sharmas number three position marking the only TV personality to make to the list a statement said.
Cyber criminals keep a lookout for ways to take advantage of consumer interest around popular culture events including award shows TV show premieres film music launches celebrity breakups and more Intel Security said. 
The report found that this year almost . per cent of all links generated while evaluating the top ten celebrity names coupled with search terms Torrent HD Download and Free MP led to malware ridden or suspicious sites. Cyber criminals capitalise on consumer interest around popular culture by luring unsuspecting consumers to risky sites to steal sensitive personal data Intel Security Group India Engineering Centre head Venkat Krishnapur said. 
Others in the list include Jacqueline Fernandez Kangana Ranaut Hrithik Roshan Deepika Padukone Emran Hashmi Sunny Leone Alia Bhatt Aamir Khan and Kareena Kapoor. The report said users must beware of clicking on third party links and ensure they use web protection that notifies them of risky sites or links before they visit them. Only download videos from wellknown legitimate sites.Use caution when searching for Torrent. This term is by far the highest virusprone search term it said. 
Also do not log in or provide other information like credit card email home address Facebook login to get access to content it added. Such requests are a common tactic for phishing that could lead to identity theft it said.
Hacking in simple terms means an illegal intrusion into a computer system andor network. There is an equivalent term to hacking i.e. cracking but from Indian Laws perspective there is no difference between the term hacking and cracking. Every act committed towards breaking into a computer andor network is hacking. Hackers write or use readymade computer programs to attack the target computer. They possess the desire to destruct and they get the kick out of such destruction. Some hackers hack for personal monetary gains such as to stealing the credit card information transferring money from various bank accounts to their own account followed by withdrawal of money. They extort money from some corporate giant threatening him to publish the stolen information which is critical in nature. 
The Internet is being highly used by its abusers to reach and abuse children sexually worldwide. The internet is very fast becoming a household commodity in India . Its explosion has made the children a viable victim to the cyber crime. As more homes have access to internet more children would be using the internet and more are the chances of falling victim to the aggression of pedophiles. 
Cyber Stalking can be defined as the repeated acts harassment or threatening behavior of the cyber criminal towards the victim by using internet services. Stalking in General terms can be referred to as the repeated acts of harassment targeting the victim such as following the victim making harassing phone calls killing the victims pet vandalizing victims property leaving written messages or objects. Stalking may be followed by serious violent acts such as physical harm to the victim and the same has to be treated and viewed seriously. It all depends on the course of conduct of the stalker.
This is an act by the criminal who floods the bandwidth of the victims network or fills his email box with spam mail depriving him of the services he is entitled to access or provide
Malicious software that attaches itself to other software. virus worms Trojan Horse Time bomb Logic Bomb Rabbit and Bacterium are the malicious
Theft of software through the illegal copying of genuine programs or the counterfeiting and distribution of products intended to pass for the original.
Internet Relay Chat IRC servers have chat rooms in which people from anywhere the world can come together and chat with each other.
Copying the companys confidential data in order to extort said company for huge amount
The act of sending an email to a user falsely claiming to be an established legitimate enterprise in an attempt to scam the user into surrendering private information that will be used for identity theft. The email directs the user to visit a Web site where they are asked to update personal information such as passwords and credit card social security and bank account numbers that the legitimate organization already has. 
There were more than five million incidents of fraud in England and Wales in the last year estimates suggest.
The Office for National Statistics has published an estimate of fraud for the first time based on its Crime Survey. 
There were also . million cyber crime offences such as computer hacking the ONS estimated.
The Crime Survey indicated an fall in crimes it covers. Separate data based on reports to police shows an overall rise in offending of . 
The two sets of figures have been published together for many years to give a more rounded impression of crime levels.
The police figures suggest a increase in violence with murders at their highest level for four years. 
In the months to the end of June there were homicides up on the same period the year before. 
For years traditional crimes have been falling right across the Western world irrespective of whos in government and how many police are on the beat. 
But todays figures have captured for the first time an awful lot of criminality that quite simply looks like it has been missed. 
If you add the official data for traditional crimes to the provisional figures for cyber and fraud the number of offences breaches million. Thats still down on the peak of million offences but its an awful lot higher than statisticians thought a year ago. 
Many experts will now be having a told you so moment. Crime statistics sceptics say theres just not enough police and policy focus on st Century offending. 
Criminality is rapidly changing and the real question is Are the police in a good place to combat it
Just over half of the . million frauds included in the Crime Survey data involved some financial loss the ONS said. 
Where losses were reported got some form of compensation with reimbursed in full. 
Frauds included card fraud and frauds committed over the phone and online. The fraud data was based on a sample of people. 
The most common cyber crimes committed under the Computer Misuse Act were those where a victims device was infected by a virus.
The category also includes the hacking of peoples emails or social media accounts.
Overall the Crime Survey estimated . million offences had taken place in England and Wales down from last year.
If they were added it would mean a total of . million crimes but the ONS cautioned against combining the two sets of figures saying the fraud and cyber data are experimental and based on a much smaller sample.
Crime Minister Mike Penning said crime rates were falling because of police reforms. 
And he said the rise in violent and sexual crimes being reported was due to changes in how offences were recorded.
Crime is falling and it is also changing and we are committed to tackling fraud and cyber crime he added.
A spokesman for the National Police Chiefs Council said the fall in crime estimated by the Crime Survey figures was encouraging.
Meanwhile the increase in crime reported to police he said reflects the efforts being made by forces to improve consistency in crime recording.
The invasion of Iraq in was not a last resort and there was no imminent threat from Saddam Hussein a longawaited report finds as relatives of service personnel killed say never again must so many mistakes be allowed to sacrifice British lives.
IBM will get help from three Canadian universities as it teaches its Watson computer system to tackle cybercrime. Continue reading
Alec Couros is taking issue with what he calls a lack of education on cyber crimes from Canadian police. This comes following a recent complaint he filed about a fake passport with his photo. Continue reading
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
A Montreal man is among three suspects charged in what the U.S. Department of Justice calls one of the largest reported data breaches in U.S. history. Continue reading
Once the FBIs mostwanted cybercriminal Jeremy Hammond is serving one of the longest sentences a U.S. hacker has received. Continue reading
Spammers are taking advantage of the Malaysia Airlines Flight MH disaster to spread spam and objectionable links on social media. Continue reading
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Law enforcement faces an enormous challenge in preventing statesponsored cyber crimes FBI Director James Comey said Wednesday. Continue reading
While Targets massive data breach last year caused consumers to panic and drew attention to Internet crime a new study finds that breaches on retailer payment systems are less common than other kinds of attacks. Continue reading
Seventy people have been arrested around the world in a meticulously coordinated crackdown targeting criminals using fake or stolen credit cards. Continue reading
TRENTON N.J. A computer specialist pleaded guilty today to participating in a conspiracy to artificially inflate stock in a scheme that included computer hackers creating botnets and taking over brokerage accounts in addition to more traditional market manipulation United States Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced.
James Bragg of Chandler Ariz. pleaded guilty before United States District Judge Joel A. Pisano to a count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and fraud in connection with electronic mail in this case distributing falsified information in mass emails known asspam. Bragg waived his right to be indicted by a federal grand jury and was charged in an Information filed today in Trenton federal court.
crimes federal law enforcement will continue to rely on equally sophisticated methods to track and thwart evolving schemes.
Securities fraud committed through computer intrusions is an imminent and growing threat said Michael B. Ward Special Agent In Charge of the FBIs Newark Field Office.Every time we make an arrest in a case like this and disrupt or dismantle such schemes it levels the playing field for honest investors and restores faith in our markets. I thank the Securities Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorneys Office on our collaborative efforts to confront this threat.
through February . Bragg was hired by an individual referred to in the Information asC.R. to promote certain stocks including stocks with ticker symbols RSUV and VSHE theManipulated Stocks. Bragg engaged in a mass email distribution campaign to promote the stocks falsifying information so that the emails could not be traced to him or C.R. and altering
To further the efficacy of the stock promotions or pumps Bragg also hired hackers and spammers including an individual in Russia referred to in the Information as B.T. The hackers distributed computer viruses to infect computers around the world and create a virtual army of computers or botnet. The hackers then caused the botnets to distribute spam to promote the Manipulated Stocks. Some of the targeted victiminvestors were residents of New Jersey.
In addition to relying on unsuspecting investors to buy into the spam promotions the hackers also hacked into the brokerage accounts of third parties liquidated the stocks in those accounts and then used those accounts to purchase shares of the Manipulated Stocks This created trading activity in the Manipulated Stocks and increased the volume of shares being traded further creating an impression that the Manipulated Stocks were worth purchasing. Bragg also agreed with C.R. to trade the Manipulated Stocks between them creating the impression that the stocks were active. In some instances this was done prior to the spam campaigns so that recipients of the spam would perceive active trading in the promoted stocks. A stock promoter who was also part of the conspiracy falsified documents submitted to attorneys in order to obtain opinion letters to secure millions of freelytrading shares in those stocks. Those letters certified that trading restrictions on shares of the Manipulated Stocks could be lifted because certain conditions set forth in securities regulations were met.
The conspiracy charge to which Bragg pleaded guilty carries a maximum potential penalty of five years in prison and a fine.
U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Michael B. Ward with the investigation which led to todays guilty plea. He also thanked the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissions Division of Enforcement and added that the investigation is ongoing.
The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher Kelly and Erez Liebermann of the U.S. Attorneys Office Economic Crimes Unit in Newark. This case was brought in coordination with President Barack Obamas Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force. President Obama established the interagency Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force to wage an aggressive coordinated and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. The task force includes representatives from a broad range of federal agencies regulatory authorities inspectors general and state and local law enforcement who working together bring to bear a powerful array of criminal and civil enforcement resources. The task force is working to improve efforts across the federal executive branch and with state and local partners to investigate and prosecute significant financial crimes ensure just and effective punishment for those who perpetrate financial crimes combat discrimination in the lending and financial markets and recover proceeds for victims of financial crimes.
Reports of alleged computer crime have been a hot news item of late. Especially alarming is the realization that many of the masterminds behind these criminal acts are mere kids. In fact children no longer need to be highly skilled in order to execute cyber crimes. Hacker tools are easily available on the Net and once downloaded can be used by even novice computer users. This greatly expands the population of possible wrongdoers. Children and in some cases their parents often think that shutting down or defacing Web sites or releasing network viruses are amusing pranks. Kids might not even realize that what they are doing is illegal. Still other kids might find themselves hanging out online with skilled hackers who share hacking tools with them and encourage them to do inappropriate things online. Unfortunately some of these kids dont realize that they are committing crimes until it is too late. Even more distressing and difficult to combat is the fact that some in the media portray the computer criminal as a modern day Robin Hood. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
So what are cyber crimes Can the law enforcement authorities find criminals online How can you create context for your children to understand what cyber crimes are The following information and areas throughout the site will help familiarize you with unethical and illegal online behavior. Additionally to learn more about cyber crime visit the Department of Justice Computer Crime Intellectual Property Sections website at www.cybercrime.gov. The Computer Emergency Response Team CERT at www.cert.org and the National Infrastructure Protection Center at the FBI at www.infragard.net provides regularly updated information and descriptions of cyber crimes.
We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookie Policies to find out more.
Chief constable Kavanaghsaid the police need to find imaginative ways to deal with the fastmoving issue of cyber crime
Cyber crime police are considering building an app for people and businesses to anonymously report online security breaches.
The app could provide witnesses with anonymity to protect businesses from the reputational damage of admitting they have been hacked.
It could also be used by victims wanting to report cyber abuse bullying or fraud according to Chief constable Stephen Kavanagh.
Chief Constable Kavanagh who also chairs the Digital Investigation and Intelligence DIIcapabilities management group and digital policing board DPB said the police need to collaborate with the cyber security industry andfind imaginative ways to deal with the fastmoving issue of cyber crime including child abuse and financial fraud.
The concept of dealing with cybercrime by typing or is a s model of what policing should be. In the digital age victims want to report crime online or with apps he told the Independent.
Some might even want to give us intelligence via apps to maintain their anonymity he added.
Cyber crime is rapidly increasing in the UK and placing a strain on police resources.
It was estimated that more than . million cybercrimes costing around billion were not reported by individuals and businesses in in a city of London Police submission to the London Assemblys Online Crime Working Group. This means that in about per cent of fraud and cybercrime offences were not reported to the police.
In the Crime Survey for England and Wales reported that about . million adults in England and Wales had been victims of some form of online fraud in the space of a year.
On the business side more than half of UK organisations have been the victim of an economic crime an illegal act committed by an individual or a group to obtain a financial or professional advantage in the last two years outstripping countries such as the US and China according to a study by PwCs.
David Webber Managing Director of Intelligent Environments said recent high profile hacking attacks such as Ashley Maddison Bitdefender and TalkTalk have put the issues at the top of peoples mind and some companies are already seeing the damage.
TalkTalk profits have more than halved after an attack on its systems last October resulted in customers credit card and bank card details being exposed. The significant and sustained cyberattack cost TalkTalk million and resulted in the loss of subscribers in the third quarter of as users fled to other networks.
A third of UK organisations admitted they have no response plan to protect themselves from an attack PwC found. Only per cent of respondents believe that law enforcement authorities have the necessary skills to help.
We need is to create a forum where companies can share information in an anonymous forum without fear of damaging their reputation if necessary Kavanagh said.
Chief Constable Kavanagh said The National Counter Terrorism Security Office the police unit which advises the British Government on its counter terrorism strategyand The National Crime Agency were adapting more quickly but progress inthe development of skills at a local level was moving more slowly.
Andrew Rogoyski head of cybersecurity at the UK branch of CGI an information technology consulting company said he feared an app would lead to an increase in the number of crimes reported but would not necessarily lead to more investigations and arrests.
The cybersecurity industry has to deal with different chief constables and police and crime commissions. This means specialists find it harder to get in touch with the people in charge of dealing with cyber crimeand offer their insights Rogoyski explained.
The problem of the law enforcement market is that it is extremely fragmented lots of companies just escaped and said its not worth it or thought it was too complicated and the rewards were too small Rogoyski said.
The pound fall below . for the first time in years amid growing concerns about the financial stability of the UK after the decision to leave the EU. The last time the pound was worth less than . was in September .
Three former Barclays traders have been found guilty of conspiring to fraudulently manipulate global benchmark interest rates at a trial in London.Jonathan Mathew a Libor submitter and Alex Pabon picture were found guilty by a majority verdict after the week trial at Southwark Crown Court.
The Bank of England is likely to cut interest rates over the summer to combat a postBrexit vote slowdown the Banks Governor Mark Carney said today.The Governors words in a speech at the Banks Threadneedle Street headquarters sent the pound instantly and sharply down against the dollar as financial market traders responded to the news of the stimulus.
Toyota the Japanese car maker said it was recalling millions of car worldwide and thousands in the UK over defective airbag concerns and fuel emissions control units.
A twostorey house is the latest attraction for tourists in the Malaysian capital city.Kuala Lumpur Upside Down House is a twostorey house and is the latest attraction for tourists arriving to the Malaysian capital where everything inside such as the furniture are placed in an upside down position.
George Osborne has sought to calm volatile financial markets in the wake of the Brexit vote in the referendum but has left his own future as Chancellor in doubt.Britain is ready to confront what the future holds for us from a position of strength he said in a statement at .am at the Treasury.Growth has been robust and employment is at a record high. Our economy is now about as strong as it could be to confront the challenge the country now faces.
nalyst Robert Halver reacts at the Frankfurt Stock exchange the day after a majority of the British public voted for leaving the European Union on June in Frankfurt am Main Germany. The FTSE plunged more than per cent in its biggest opening slump since the financial crisis wiping billion off the value of the biggest UK companies after the UK voted to leave the EU.
A clipping of David Bowies blonde coiffure could fetch thousands this week at auction. The current bid is for on Heritage Auctions but The Associated Press is reporting that the Beverly Hillsbased auction house is expecting to get more than for the lock on Saturday.
The Palace of Culture and Science Warsaws Palace of Culture and Science was illuminated in the colors of the Union Jack and accompanied by the hashtag Vote Remain.
Sandra Brown rides the Skyslide on the th and th floors of the US Bank Tower which is attached to the OUE Skyspace LA observation deck in downtown Los Angeles California US June . Visitors will glide through the ftlong glass tube to enjoy a birdseye view of Los Angeles before landing on a more traditional viewing platform on the th floor.
TalkTalk chief executive Dido Harding has seen her pay almost triple to . million despite presiding over the firm in the year it was hit with a cyber attack that caused profits to halve.In October TalkTalk suffered from a cyberattack which cost the firm as much as million and the loss of subscribers.Her salary increased from to thanks to the companys . million long term incentive plan which was awarded at the end of the previous year.Harding has pledged to donate a further annual bonus to the Ambitous About Autism charity. 
Revlon will acquire Elizabeth Arden for about milliona wager that uniting two aging cosmetics giants can reinvigorate both companies brands.The ashare deal values Elizabeth Arden at about million when debt is included New Yorkbased Revlon said on Thursday. The cash transaction represents a per cent premium over Elizabeth Ardens closing price of .
Ten of thousands of people are expected to visit the Disneyland resort in Shanghai on Thursday as the . billion park opens its doors after five years of construction.The park which is the largest investment from Disney overseas opened its doors with fireworks dancing Disney characters and support from two of the most powerful leaders of the world US President Barack Obama and Chinas President Xi Jinping.
Sir Philip has been called to answer questions by the Business Innovation and Skills Committee over the collapse of BHS leaving jobs at risk. He has apologised to BHS staff for his handling of the demise of the company which went into administration on April . In opening remarks to a committee of MPs Sir Philip said that his emotional tie to BHS meant that he hung on to the chain too long leading to trouble.
House prices across the UK continued to grow in April with London prices leaping by more than per cent over the last year according to official figures published on Tuesday.The average house price in the UK increased . per cent year on year to in April up from the same time in .In London which continued to be far more expensive than anywhere else in the country the average house price is now more than up by nearly on April last year.
Microsoft has said it is buying LinkedIn for . billion in cash in its biggestever acquisition.In a post on the Microsoft website Microsoft said that that the deal values LinkedIn at per share.Jeff Weiner will remain CEO of LinkedIn reporting to Satya Nadella CEO of Microsoft. Nadella said that as a user of LinkedIn and a publisher on LinkedIn he was excited to work with the site because of the way it empowers people to take the next step in their careers.
Solar generated more electricity than coal in the UK for the first month on record in May.Solar generated around gigawatt hours GWh of electricy in May per cent more than the GWh generated by coal according to analysis by Carbon Brief.Carbon brief had previously said that solar power beat two largely symbolic milestones in May when it beat coal for the first full day on April and for the first week on May .
Amazon is competing with British supermarkets as it launches its own food delivery service in the UK in central and east London postcodesAmazon Fresh is available to Amazon Prime customers in areas including Camden Hackney Soho Marylebone and Mayfair as the service makes its first steps outside the US.
The Royal Mint is to open its golden vaults for the first time to pensioners who wish to invest.Starting from Wednesday investors will be able to buy g and kg gold bars or Signature Gold as part of a service that allows customers to own a fractional amount of a oz gold bar to be held as a pension scheme.The bars will be stored in The Royal Mints vault and are subject to a one per cent plus VAT storage charge based on the daily market value.
Mike Ashley has admitted paying Sports Direct employees below the minimum wage at a hearing in front of MPs.The company founder said that workers were paid less than the statutory minimum because of bottlenecks at security in an admission that could result in sanctions from HMRC.
The pound has fallen to fresh lows after polls showed support for the Leave campaign was growing ahead of the EU referendum.Polling firm TNS said on Monday that the Leave campaign had a point lead over the Remain campaign. Sterling fell per cent against the dollar to hit a threeweek low on June .Against the dollar sterling fell to . recovering slightly from lows of . in early trading in Asia its lowest in three weeks.
The weakest American job creation figures in six years last month have sent the dollar tumbling and crushed expectations of another interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve this summer.
Mark Carney governor of the Bank of England BOE reveals the final design for the new polymer banknote featuring an image of wartime leader Winston Churchill.The Bank says the thin and flexible plastic banknotes will be cleaner more durable as they will last for five years and harder to counterfeit than the current paper notes.It admits that they may initially be prone to sticking together.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said hell delay an increase in Japans sales tax until a move that may help support consumer spending while complicating the governments efforts to tame the worlds largest debt burden.
British menswear retailer Austin Reed is to close of its stores by the end of June after administrators failed to find a buyer for the entire business.
Seven leaders have warned of the risk to global economy if Britain votes to leave the European Union in a referendum next month.The UK leaving the European Union would reverse the trend towards greater global trade and investment and the jobs they create and is a further serious risk to growth leaders said in a joint declaration at the G meeting in Japan.
Demonstrators calling for an increase in the minimum wage to dollarsperhour protest outside of McDonalds corporate headquarters on May in Oak Brook Illinois. 
Hundreds of steelworkers from across the UK marched through Westminster to keep up pressure for government help for their industry
The message Im feeling lucky is seen on the facade of the entrance of Googles Paris headquarters on May in Paris France. Googles headquarters in Paris were raided by French investigators on Tuesday morning as part of an investigation over alleged tax fraud. Ministry of Finance is seeking . billion . billion in back taxes from the US Internet giant Google.
Monsanto DeKalb brand hybrid corn sits in the hopper of a Case IH planter in a field in Princeton Illinois US. Bayer on Monday made an unsolicited billion allcash offer to acquire Monsanto to create the worlds biggest supplier of farm chemicals and genetically modified seeds a proposed acquisition that would be the biggest corporate deal by a German company.
Councillors in North Yorkshire on Friday considered whether to approve fracking in England for the first time since a ban on the technique was lifted in .
The worlds most expensive diamond has set a new record after it was sold at auction for more than million. At . carats the Oppenheimer Blue was the largest Vivid Blue diamond ever to go under the hammer. 
Mitsubishi Motors President Tetsuro Aikawa will step down as the Japanese automaker looks to regroup from its widening fuel economy testing scandal with the backing of Nissan Motor.Aikawa and Executive Vice President Ryugo Nakao will leave their positions effective June according to a statement Wednesday.Prior to the scandal Mitsubishi was the sixth biggest carmaker in Japan and ranked worldwide.
But its hugely helpful to see that a coherent strategy is beginning to emerge addressing some of the real problems weve seen in the last few years. The key is to engage with the industry as they are the one who know where the market is going he added.
An inaugural meeting of the Digital Policing Board will be held for the first time this month to discuss how the two sectors can collaborate better together and Kavannagh is hoping to see an improvement in the way the police force engages with tech firms in the next three to six months.
Sign up now to get free exclusive access to reports research and invitation only events.
The average economic impact of cyber crime on Australian organisations increased from . million last year to . million according to the Ponemon Institutes Cost of Cyber Crime Study.
iiNet subsidiary Westnet has confirmed that it is investigating an alleged database hack.
Purchasing stolen credentials is so easy that anyone with a couple of hours of Google research and not many technical skills can do it according to Interpol cyber innovation and outreach project manager Steve Honiss. 
Global Internet advertising revenues will approach US billion by the year making it a lucrative business but also attractive to cyber criminals according to Cisco. 
Most malware is mundane but these innovative techniques are exploiting systems and networks of even the savviest users
Most malware is mundane but these innovative techniques are exploiting systems and networks of even the savviest users
Security pros and government officials warn of a possible cyber involving banks utilities other companies or the Internet
If you travel to China or Russia assume government or industry spooks will steal your data and install spyware. Heres how to thwart them
WiFi may be the networking method of choice among apartment blocks cropping up in increased numbers in Australias major cities however increased reliance on wireless internet is resulting in more security risks according to Layer Consulting.
Organised criminals are using new tactics to put a new face on old crimes and with overwhelming success. Better analysis of network data is emerging as a powerful defence helping Australian companies to harness the power of analytics to detect breaches early and minimize their exposure.
Copyright IDG Communications. ABN . All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited.
The trio is accused of being associated with a hacking group that supports Syrian President Bashar alAssad that has claimed responsibility for hacks targeting the media human rights organizations and the US government.
The creators of the Dridex malware reportedly call themselves the Evil Corp. A spokesman for the UKs National Crime Agency NCA told VICE News the figure of million was an educated estimate.
The yearold son of a Russian politician was arrested for allegedly hacking US retailers. But according to Russia he was kidnapped.
Want the most interesting Technology and Hacking News delivered automatically to your inbox Subscribe to our Newsletter and eBook Updates.
The owner of this website kashmirobserver.net has banned your access based on your browsers signature becddua.
The Cyber team searches for the hacker responsible for the largest breach of highly classified data in history when millions of federal employee files are stolen.
Avery risks her life to capture the criminal on the FBI Cybers Most Wanted List who murdered her friend an Interpol agent.
When a woman is murdered during a video chat with her parents Averys skills are put to the test as she interviews the only other witness an agoraphobic neighbor with PTSD from the incident.
You must be a registered user to use the IMDb rating plugin.
An elite team of police forensic evidence investigation experts work their cases in Las Vegas. 
The Naval Criminal Investigation Services Office of Special Projects takes on the undercover work and the hard to crack cases in LA. Key agents are G. Callen and Sam Hanna streets kids risen through the ranks. 
The cases of the MiamiDade Florida police departments Crime Scene Investigations unit. 
An international unit of the FBI charged with coming to the aid of and solving crimes involving American citizens in foreign countries. A spinoff from Criminal Minds. 
An eccentric genius forms an international network of supergeniuses to act as the last line of defense against the complicated threats of the modern world. 
The cases of the Naval Criminal Investigative Services Washington DC Major Case Response Team led by Special Agent Leroy Jethro Gibbs. 
Steve McGarrett returns home to Oahu in order to find his fathers killer. The governor offers him the chance to run his own task force Five. Steves team is joined by Chin Ho Kelly Danny Danno Williams and Kono Kalakaua. 
Carrie Wells a former police detective has a rare ability to remember virtually everything she experiences including detailed visual recall. She returns to police work and uses her ability to solve crimes. 
The cases of the FBI Behavioral Analysis Unit BAU an elite group of profilers who analyze the nations most dangerous serial killers and individual heinous crimes in an effort to anticipate their next moves before they strike again. 
The Closer spinoff series which follows Capt. Raydor of the Los Angeles Police Department. 
Special agent Avery Ryan works to solve crimes as a CyberPsychologist for the FBI. 
I was really looking forward to the show C.S.I Cyber but it was nothing but a let down. James Van Der Beek will always be the Dawsons Creek kid. Come on Shad Moss aka Lil Bow Wow give me a break. I found the most disappointing Patricia Arquette acting was stinky cheese. The story line was not that good it was original but there was not a lot of focus on the bad guys. With no bad guys seen you dont get what is the impact of the show and how hard it might be to catch them. The ending was just all to easy when the Bad guys were presumable smart with technology. Im truly disappointed in the show and sad to say its not a show I will be watching.
Find showtimes watch trailers browse photos track your Watchlist and rate your favorite movies and TV shows on your phone or tablet
The UKs National Crime Agency has arrested suspected hackers as part of a strike week against cybercrime.
In total separate operations were carried out across England Scotland and Wales.
Those arrested are suspected of being involved in a wide variety of cybercrimes including data theft fraud and virus writing. 
One raid the BBC witnessed targeted a man suspected of involvement in a hack attack on web giant Yahoo.
The weeklong series of operations was coordinated by the NCAs National Cyber Crime Unit NCCU as well as specialist officers from regional organised crime squads and the Metropolitan Police.
West Midlands police arrested a yearold man in Sutton Coldfield who is believed to have been involved in breaking into the network of the US defence department in June . 
The biggest operation saw the arrest of people in London and Essex suspected of using the net to steal money launder cash and carry out other frauds.
The hackers behind that attack stole contact information for about people and data on the networks internal architecture was also pilfered.
I was with one of the teams from the National Crime Agency as they carried out an arrest this week at a flat in north London. One group had tracked the suspect a yearold student all the way back from university minutes away. 
The arrest had some of the drama of a classic police operation Go Go Go came the command over the walkietalkie as we approached the suspects flat. But no doors were kicked in and there were no shouts of Youre nicked The priority was to make sure any computers were seized before they could be shut down or their data encrypted. 
Teams arrived with equipment to gather data and found a laptop and a desktop computer both of them online. One officer was employed simply keeping her finger on the laptops trackpad to make sure it didnt go to sleep. Later police cyberspecialists would spend many hours examining exactly what was on the two computers.
The action also resulted in the arrest of people thought to be part of some wellknown hacking groups. 
In Leeds a suspected member of the Lizard Squad group was arrested and in London a yearold man was taken into custody on suspicion of being part of the DDs Company hacking collective. 
The DDs group is believed to have been behind a attack on Yahoo that stole more than email addresses and passwords subsequently published online. 
Investigations about suspects in Sutton Coldfield Leeds and Willesden were aided by forensic information provided by the FBI.
The other actions targeted alleged phishing gangs intellectual property thieves users of financial malware companies that offer hosting services to crime groups and many people who took part in socalled DDoS distributed denial of service attacks in an attempt to knock websites offline.
One yearold man from County Durham allegedly knocked out the Police Scotland website mounting such a DDoS attack.
Criminals need to realise that committing crime online will not render them anonymous to law enforcement said Andy Archibald deputy director of the NCCU. 
Its imperative that we continue to work with partners to pursue and disrupt the major crime groups targeting the UK.
In addition this week the NCA coordinated visits to firms to inform them about how vulnerable their servers were to attack and how they could be used by cyberthieves to send out spam or act as proxies for other attacks.
The strike week also involved four forces setting up popup shops to give advice to the public about staying safe online and to get their devices checked to make sure they are free of malware and other digital threats.
A sevenyear inquiry into the Iraq War concludes that peaceful options had not been exhausted and there was no imminent threat from Saddam Hussein.
Copyright Cartwright King Solicitors. All rights resvered. Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority No . Registered for VAT No. . Matblack.
With every new advance in technology comes new opportunities freshexperiences alternative ways of thinking and unseen challenges too and in recent history weve seen many new and drastic advances in technology the internet and mobile telecommunications being two of the biggest.
The internet and cyber technology now surroundus wherever we are. If youre on a plane you can access WiFi and keep on top of your work if you go on holiday most hotels now offer high speed WiFi so you can keep connected even when youre trying to get away from it alland with advances in mobile technology all this is now available in the palm of your hand at any waking moment.
Of course this is great our constant connectivity allows to stay connected to the rest of the world keep in touch with friends and family manage bank accounts and finances and keep on top of work and business without having to head into the office.
For all the good aspects of the internet there are threats and dangers about how much we depend on the internet including being susceptible to cyber crime. But exactly what is cyber crime Lets take a look
INTERPOL simply define cyber crime as attacks against computer hardware or software
Cyber attacks are low riskhigh return crimes. A mere of police reordered cyber crimes incidents result in a conviction
of cyber crime is directed at small to medium businesses and in nearly of businesses had at least one hacking incident.
Despite there being numerous ways to commit cyber crime criminals tend to be more interested in gathering information such as employee records personal banking information logins passwords and contact lists anything that might lead them to hacking into some sort of financial gold mine.
Research suggests that should people be a victim of cyber crime of us wouldnt report it and of people wouldnt know who to report it to.
In the USA the average cost of cyber crime per year for the average firm is .m The global average is .m
In it was revealed of the biggest UK companies had been attacked online.
Confidential file theft has led to .bn in the stealing of intellectual property which includes designs ideas and new concepts.
According to the Federation of Small Businesses cyber crimes cost small firms m annually.
Over half of Britons that use the internet have been a victim of cyber crime in one way or another. Of all those people only report the incident to the authorities suggesting people dont know how to report cyber crime or just believe justice wont be done.
Following the PanamaPapers scandal the EU has announced a new crackdown on offshore tax avoidance shell companies
Copyright Cartwright King Solicitors. All rights reserved. Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority No . Registered for VAT No. . Matblack.
Violent and cyber crime have surged in England and Wales according to official figures which showed the true level of offending is double the figure previously thought. 
Police data showed the highest level of violence in a decade more than crimes in the months to the end of June. 
An extra violent crimes were recorded by forces yearonyear with the jump largely due to officers keeping more accurate records after accusations the figures were widely fiddled over the years. 
The Office for National Statistics ONS also published new research which said there were . million cyber crimes and frauds in the year plus . million offences under the Computer Misuse Act such as hacking. 
It represented more than a per cent increase on the previous year although technically it was not a rise because the cyber crimes existed previously but were simply not monitored by the government. 
Victims of cyber crime should be low priority if they fail to take security steps says report 
This is not a new threat and the Government has been working to get ahead of the game. 
The . million cyber crimes affected . million victims of whom . million suffered financial loss. 
The ONS revealed that in nearly four out of cases of cyber fraud the victims were only partly reimbursed by financial institutions. 
In just over per cent of cases victims lost more than with the majority losing more modest sums. 
Lots of criminal markets have migrated from street corners to the internet and the police simply havent got the resources to keep up. 
In violent crime out of police forces recorded a rise in offences the largest in Hampshire and West Mercia both up per cent and Northamptonshire per cent. Only Leicestershire recorded a fall of per cent. 
The Metropolitan Police the countrys largest force signalled a per cent leap in violence the largest increase in the country in terms of numbers with an extra crimes bringing the total to . 
Overall police recorded . million crimes in England and Wales a per cent increase yearonyear. 
Sex crimes also saw another large surge in recorded data up per cent to largely because more victims have confidence their cases will be investigated. 
John Allan the Federation of Small Businesses national chairman said the ONS should expand the scope of crime figures to include the impact on firms which are still excluded from the data. 
Cyber crime and fraud especially cyber enabled fraud are serious threats to small businesses as well as households he said. 
We are disappointed the new statistics only focus on the impact of cyber crime and fraud on households and do not reveal the extent of the impact on businesses. We urge the ONS to rectify this. 
Todays world is more interconnected than ever before. Yet for all its advantages increased connectivity brings increased risk of theft fraud and abuse. As Americans become more reliant on modern technology we also become more vulnerable to cyberattacks such as corporate security breaches spear phishing and social media fraud. Complementary cybersecurity and law enforcement capabilities are critical to safeguarding and securing cyberspace. Law enforcement performs an essential role in achieving our nations cybersecurity objectives by investigating a wide range of cyber crimes from theft and fraud to child exploitation and apprehending and prosecuting those responsible. The Department of Homeland Security DHS works with other federal agencies to conduct highimpact criminal investigations to disrupt and defeat cyber criminals prioritize the recruitment and training of technical experts develop standardized methods and broadly share cyber response best practices and tools. Criminal investigators and network security experts with deep understanding of the technologies malicious actors are using and the specific vulnerabilities they are targeting work to effectively respond to and investigate cyber incidents.
DHS components such as the U.S. Secret Service and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE have special divisions dedicated to combating cyber crime.
The U.S. Secret Service maintains Electronic Crimes Task Forces which focus on identifying and locating international cyber criminals connected to cyber intrusions bank fraud data breaches and other computerrelated crimes. The Secret Services Cyber Intelligence Section has directly contributed to the arrest of transnational cyber criminals responsible for the theft of hundreds of millions of credit card numbers and the loss of approximately million to financial and retail institutions. The Secret Service also runs the National Computer Forensic Institute which provides law enforcement officers prosecutors and judges with cyber training and information to combat cyber crime.
The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE Homeland Security Investigations HSI Cyber Crimes Center C delivers computerbased technical services to support domestic and international investigations into crossborder crime. C is made up of the Cyber Crimes Unit the Child Exploitation Investigations Unit and the Computer Forensics Unit. This stateoftheart center offers cyber crime support and training to federal state local and international law enforcement agencies. C also operates a fully equipped computer forensics laboratory which specializes in digital evidence recovery and offers training in computer investigative and forensic skills.
The Law Enforcement Cyber Incident Reporting resource provides information for state local tribal and territorial SLTT law enforcement on when what and how to report a cyber incident to a federal entity. The document also provides information on federally sponsored training opportunities and other useful resources available to SLTT law enforcement.
error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.
IBM will get help from three Canadian universities as it teaches its Watson computer system to tackle cybercrime. Continue reading
Alec Couros is taking issue with what he calls a lack of education on cyber crimes from Canadian police. This comes following a recent complaint he filed about a fake passport with his photo. Continue reading
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
A Montreal man is among three suspects charged in what the U.S. Department of Justice calls one of the largest reported data breaches in U.S. history. Continue reading
Once the FBIs mostwanted cybercriminal Jeremy Hammond is serving one of the longest sentences a U.S. hacker has received. Continue reading
Spammers are taking advantage of the Malaysia Airlines Flight MH disaster to spread spam and objectionable links on social media. Continue reading
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Law enforcement faces an enormous challenge in preventing statesponsored cyber crimes FBI Director James Comey said Wednesday. Continue reading
While Targets massive data breach last year caused consumers to panic and drew attention to Internet crime a new study finds that breaches on retailer payment systems are less common than other kinds of attacks. Continue reading
Seventy people have been arrested around the world in a meticulously coordinated crackdown targeting criminals using fake or stolen credit cards. Continue reading
Reports of alleged computer crime have been a hot news item of late. Especially alarming is the realization that many of the masterminds behind these criminal acts are mere kids. In fact children no longer need to be highly skilled in order to execute cyber crimes. Hacker tools are easily available on the Net and once downloaded can be used by even novice computer users. This greatly expands the population of possible wrongdoers. Children and in some cases their parents often think that shutting down or defacing Web sites or releasing network viruses are amusing pranks. Kids might not even realize that what they are doing is illegal. Still other kids might find themselves hanging out online with skilled hackers who share hacking tools with them and encourage them to do inappropriate things online. Unfortunately some of these kids dont realize that they are committing crimes until it is too late. Even more distressing and difficult to combat is the fact that some in the media portray the computer criminal as a modern day Robin Hood. Nothing could be further from the truth.
So what are cyber crimes Can the law enforcement authorities find criminals online How can you create context for your children to understand what cyber crimes are The following information and areas throughout the site will help familiarize you with unethical and illegal online behavior. Additionally to learn more about cyber crime visit the Department of Justice Computer Crime Intellectual Property Sections website at www.cybercrime.gov. The Computer Emergency Response Team CERT at www.cert.org and the National Infrastructure Protection Center at the FBI at www.infragard.net provides regularly updated information and descriptions of cyber crimes. 
Strengthening the security and resilience of cyberspace has become an important homeland security mission.
Todays world is more interconnected than ever before. Yet for all its advantages increased connectivity brings increased risk of theft fraud and abuse.
DHS works with each federal civilian department and agency to effectively respond to everchanging threats against their networks.
DHS draws on the Nations full range of expertise and resources to secure critical infrastructure from cyber threats.
DHS provides assistance to potentially impacted entities analyzes the potential impact across critical infrastructure investigates those responsible in conjunction with law enforcement partners and coordinates the national response to significant cyber incidents.
Protects businesses and individuals from Internetbased risks and from risks relating to information technology infrastructure and activities.
Information sharing is essential to the protection of critical infrastructure and to furthering cybersecurity for the nation.
Every time we connect to the Internet we make decisions that affect our cybersecurity.
America needs well trained professionals working in cybersecurity roles. These professionals are critical in both private industry and the government for the security of individuals and the nation. The Department of Homeland Security DHS is committed to strengthening the nations cybersecurity workforce through standardizing roles and helping to ensure we have welltrained cybersecurity workers today as well as a strong pipeline of future cybersecurity leaders of tomorrow.
The demand for an experienced and qualified workforce to protect our Nations networks and information systems has never been higher.
DHS empowers its cybersecurity programs to succeed by integrating privacy protections from the outset.
DHS continues to research and develop new innovative solutions to complex cybersecurity problems.
Information on implementation of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of and DHSs Automated Indicator Sharing AIS initiative.
Recently there were reports that cyber criminals had hit the organisation in charge of Australias finances. In another incident some hackers even got to the personal details of Michelle Obama the wife of the US President. So why are people doing this Sarah looks at some of the different types of hackers out there and why they do it.
Theyre the criminals of the st century using technology to steal to spy to create havoc. These are the cyber criminals. If you think of how much we use the internet every day its easy to see why online security is a big issue.
All of that information going back and forth from entertainment to bank accounts business records even government secrets. Its all online and its very attractive to criminals. Cyber crime is thought to cost the world about billion dollars a year and its a big worry for businesses governments and ordinary internet users. So who are these cyber crooks Lets have a look at some of the suspects.
Pirates are a pretty common sort of cyber criminal. Theyre people who download upload or share digital material that they dont have the rights to like movies or games or music. Thats against the law and the entertainment industry says it costs them hundreds of millions of dollars a year.
Heres another one you might have come across. The phisher is someone who sends out emails trying to scam you out of your personal details. Have you ever had an email telling you youve won lots of money Maybe a foreign prince who wants to give you his fortune. Thats phishing and people who fall for it can lose a lot.
Phishers sometimes hook people in using fake websites which record your passwords and sometimes they spread malware nasty computer programs designed to spy on you or wreck your system.
Hacktivists are more controversial. Theyre people who use their programming skills to protest for things they believe in and while not all of them break the law some do. They can bring down websites or steal digital secrets not for money to prove a point. 
Hackers going by the name Anonymous and using this symbol have been behind some big cyber attacks. In Australia they hacked into an internet company and stole peoples details to protest against the governments plans to keep track of people on the net. Theyve also hit overseas governments and businesses. And while the hackers say theyre fighting for peoples rights others say theyre committing cyber terrorism.
Then theres these guys The Advanced Persistent Threat agents or APTs. Theyre the ones that really worry governments around the world. Theyre groups of skilled hackers with lots of resources who are able to do serious digital damage. They might work for criminals stealing money and information. And they might work for governments.
China is often accused of employing APTs to collect information from overseas governments. But its not the only country doing it. A few years ago the USA and Israel employed hackers to attack the computers of nuclear scientists in Iran. Fighting cyber crime is big business and programmers are always working to keep one step ahead writing programs which detect malware and building better online security systems. 
Often the people who know how to commit cyber crimes end up working for the good guys trying to stop others from doing the wrong thing. As for the rest of us the best way to protect ourselves is to know about the crims that are out there and use common sense to stay safe on the net.
its not that bad i mean if annonymus is stoping goverments spying on OUR personal info its ok im with them
Why would someone be that bad Its just sick and kinda creepy that someone can see everything I post online
I didnt realise how big a deal this is Imagin getting on of those vids from anonymous that would be scary
The world of cyber things are growing bigger and bigger only because people are using computers more often. Its shocking to see why hackers would do such a thing
I really think this story is informative and it tells people what can happen if they put there email address into some website that hackers are on.thanks BTN Behinds the News you are the best Daisy
WOW It is amazing that there are so many people in the world that can do this. We really need to put a stop to this
i think cyber crime is a great report and tells you lots of important information
They should actually have like a security hatch so then if someone tries to hack something the security hatch can warn them so they can stop them
i enjoyed the video and i want the people to stop haking into things. i have never haked into anything befor and i never will because it is bad and it castes the world millions of money
i think to stop this cause we should tell a adult thats looking after you to check on the site you are on and see if your safe. And count keeper can block sites that have been hacked before like facebook so no one gets hacked or harmed.
I think that cyber crime is definitly not on. I know its already illeagul but I would like the government to try harder if they can to stop this issue. I dont think the cyber criminals themselfs would like it if they got hacked then they would know how we would feel. I agree with most people that cyber criminals should be stopped. Thanyou Jess.
phishers A message is NOT a virus a virus is completely different. This is a scam.
If you have a comment on a story then please submit your comment via the story page. If you need to ask something else though please email either the
The owner of this website kashmirobserver.net has banned your access based on your browsers signature becefdaua.
The online company which has an app that lets people turn photos on their mobiles into postcards said it had been targeted by criminals and some customer data had been stolen. 
The stolen details include customer names email addresses and postal addresses while there were also some recorded instances of dates of birth being accessed the company said. 
The news comes just after TalkTalk announced the details of customers and bank account numbers were accessed in last months cyber attack.
A teenager who took his own life after being blackmailed by strangers online is every parents worst nightmare his mother has said.
Whoever was at the other end of that computer did not know Daniel. They didnt care that he was a loving and caring person with his whole life ahead of him. To them he was just another faceless victim to exploit for cash.
Losing Daniel has left us all devastated and we are still trying to come to terms with what has happened.
Interpol the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and authorities in the Philippines joined a major criminal inquiry after a British teenager who was blackmailed online took his own life. 
A young Scottish teenager lost his life as a result of this online activity. The impact on his family friends and wider community cannot be imagined.
British police investigating the death of a teenager who took his own life after being blackmailed by strangers online have been involved in a major international operation targeting cybercrime in the Philippines.
Daniel Perry from Dunfermline in Fife died in July last year after falling victim to an alleged sextortion attempt in which internet users are lured into webcam chats and then blackmailed with the footage.
Inquiries by detectives from Police Scotland revealed an electronic online trail which led to the Philippines and links to organised crime groups there. More than people have been arrested in a series of raids according to Philippine authorities in an operation codenamed Strikeback.
The elderly and the poor are being targeted among around million people who are victims of scams each year according to the Citizens Advice Bureau CAB.
Fraud offences in England Wales were up yearonyear in with over cases reported to Action Fraud the fraud and online crime reporting service.
However CAB said the real figure was likely to be much higher because a lot of fraud goes unreported.
Tens of millions of UK email users may be having their financial details stolen in a mass spamming event according to experts in cyber crime.
The National Crime Agency warned that small and medium businesses are the top targets of the messages that appear to be legitimate emails from banks.
The emails come with attachments that appear to be files containing details of a suspicious transaction but in fact harbour malicious software.
The screen will then display a countdown timer that demands the payment of Bitcoins around a form of currency used for Internet transactions in ransom for the decryption key.
The National Cyber Crime Unit advises that anyone whose computer is infected should report it to www.actionfraud.police.uk.
Crime is at record low levels and this government is taking action to tackle the cyber threat investing more than million through the national cyber security programme to develop and maintain cuttingedge capabilities.
The National Crime Agency will include a new elite National Cyber Crime unit to target the most serious offenders and provide enhanced intelligence for CEOP so they can protect even more children from harm.
But we know we need to keep pace with criminals as they target the web and so we continue to consider ways to ensure the police and security services have access to communications data.
Crime is changing and not falling at the rate that figures suggests the chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales said today after an influential group of MPs found that UK was losing the war against cyber crime in a new report.
It is extremely concerning that relentless cuts to policing are continuing at a time when there is a burgeoning cyber crime industry.
This report highlights how the Government message that its reforms are working because crime is falling is one which is oversimplistic and misleading. It is also rightly acknowledges that online crime can play a direct role in other offences being committed.
Crime is clearly changing not falling at the rate the figures suggest and an unknown but extremely high number of offences are going unreported. The police service needs greater not fewer resources to deal with the challenges of the st century.
The UK is being too complacent about online criminal activity because the victims are hidden in cyberspace the chair of the Home Affairs Select Committee said today after it issued a warning that the country was losing the war on internet crime.
The threat of a cyber attack to the UK is so serious it is marked as a higher threat than a nuclear attack.
You can steal more on the internet than you can by robbing a bank and online criminals in countries have chosen the UK as their number one target. Astonishingly some are operating from EU countries.
If we dont have a st century response to this st century crime we will be letting those involved in these gangs off the hook.
The UK is losing the war against internet crime an influential group of MPs has warned. Despite being the preferred target of online criminals in countries the UK is still complacent towards ecrime as victims are hidden in cyberspace the Home Affairs Select Committee said. 
The group of MPs said sufficient funding and resources for tackling online crime which includes Identity theft industrial espionage credit card fraud and child exploitation has not been allocated.
Tougher sentences for online criminals and improved training for police officers are recommended by the Committee to deal with the growing threat of cyber criminality.
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
inextlive Cyber Crime Cyber Crime Hindi News Cyber Crime Latest News Cyber Crime Cyber Crime Cyber Crime Cyber Crime Cyber Crime inextlive .
Cybercrime is one of the greatest threats facing our country and has enormous implications for our national security economic prosperity and public safety. The range of threats and the challenges they present for law enforcement expand just as rapidly as technology evolves.
Jul Partnership aims to provide clients with an overall visibility and control of their IT security
Jul The TRA advises families on how to ensure their childrens activities on social networks are safe
Jun CompTIA reveals of UAE businesses have experienced a mobilerelated security incident in the past months 
Jun Roughly half of those surveyed assessed their response capabilities have been implemented without proper planning or is virtually nonexistent. 
Jun Harish Chib VP for Middle East Africa at Sophos on how the company is working to close gaping security holes in networks 
Jun Marc Hanne director of sales DACH CEE and Middle East for HID Global on how physical security is blending with mobility 
Jun Hussam Sidani regional manager for Gulf Symantec on cybercriminals shifting tactics 
Jun Hackers OurMine are on the rampage again and continue to target celebrities and CEOs
Jun Observant viewers noticed that Mark Zuckerberg uses cellotape as a security solution to prevent spying
ITP.net is the Gulfs longestrunning technology news site touching on national regional and global events relevant to CIOs and techsavvy consumers.
A Kickstarter project turns Wimbledon tennis balls into Bluetooth speakers bit.lypUaV
Reliance Digital offers LYF G LTE smartphone months unlimited data voice calls for just Rs bit.lypIJNb
Increasing cyber crime is leading to social insecurity national security threats. Efforts put in by Mukesh and team are highly commendable and I wish them the very best
MySpace has played an important role in helping Oakland police apprehend a year old man accused of shooting a San Leandro 
What was most troubling to investigators was the lack of motive for the killing.
MUMBAI September IT experts were trying yesterday to restore the official website of the government of Maharashtra which was hacked in the early hours of Tuesday.
Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister R.R. Patil confirmed that the Maharashtra government website had been hacked. He added that the state government would seek the help of IT and the Cyber Crime Branch to investigate the hacking.
We have taken a serious view of this hacking and if need be the government would even go further and seek the help of private IT experts. Discussions are in progress between the officials of the IT Department and experts Patil added.
The state government website contains detailed information about government departments circulars reports and several other topics. IT experts working on restoring the website told Arab News that they fear that the hackers may have destroyed all of the websites contents.
According to sources the hackers may be from Washington. IT experts said that the hackers had identified themselves as Hackers Cool AlJazeera and claimed they were based in Saudi Arabia. They added that this might be a red herring to throw investigators off their trail.
According to a senior official from the state governments IT department the official website has been affected by viruses on several occasions in the past but was never hacked. The official added that the website had no firewall.
Customers credit card details were misused through online means for booking airtickets. These culprits were caught by the city Cyber Crime Investigation Cell in pune. It is found that details misused were belonging to people.
Mr. Parvesh Chauhan ICICI Prudential Life Insurance officer had complained on behalf of one of his customer. In this regard Mr. Sanjeet Mahavir Singh Lukkad Dharmendra Bhika Kale and Ahmead Sikandar Shaikh were arrested. Lukkad being employeed at a private institution Kale was his friend. Shaiklh was employed in one of the branches of State Bank of India .
According to the information provided by the police one of the customer received a SMS based alert for purchasing of the ticket even when the credit card was being held by him. Customer was alert and came to know something was fishy he enquired and came to know about the misuse. He contacted the Bank in this regards. Police observed involvement of many Banks in this reference. 
The tickets were book through online means. Police requested for the log details and got the information of the Private Institution. Investigation revealed that the details were obtained from State Bank of India . Shaikh was working in the credit card department due to this he had access to credit card details of some customers. He gave that information to Kale. Kale in return passed this information to his friend Lukkad. Using the information obtained from Kale Lukkad booked tickets. He used to sell these tickets to customers and get money for the same. He had given few tickets to various other institutions.
Cyber Cell head DCP Sunil Pulhari and PI Mohan Mohadikar A.P.I Kate were involved in eight days of investigation and finally caught the culprits.
In this regards various Banks have been contacted also four airline industries were contacted. DCP Sunil Pulhari has requested customers who have fallen in to this trap to inform police authorities on or if they have any problems.
Hackers are no longer motivated by notoriety its now all about the money. Guillaume Lovet Threat Response Team Leader at security firm Fortinet identifies the players their roles and the returns they enjoy on their investments. Law Cyber Law or IT Act has become a profession and the demographic of your typical cybercriminal is changing rapidly from bedroombound geek to the type of organised gangster more traditionally associated with drugtrafficking extortion and money laundering. It has become possible for people with comparatively low technical skills to steal thousands of pounds a day without leaving their homes. In fact to make more money than can be made selling heroin and with far less risk the only time the criminal need leave his PC is to collect his cash. Sometimes they dont even need to do that. The rise of cybercrime is inextricably linked to the ubiquity of credit card transactions and online bank accounts. Get hold of this financial data and not only can you steal silently but also through a process of virusdriven automation with ruthlessly efficient and hypothetically infinite frequency. The question of how to obtain credit cardbank account data can be answered by a selection of methods each involving their own relative combinations of risk expense and skill. The most straightforward is to buy the finished product. In this case well use the example of an online bank account. The product takes the form of information necessary to gain authorised control over a bank account with a sixfigure balance. The cost to obtain this information is cybercriminals always deal in dollars. It seems like a small figure but for the work involved and the risk incurred its very easy money for the criminal who can provide it. Also remember that this is an international trade many cybercriminals of this ilk are from poor countries in Eastern Europe South America or SouthEast Asia. The probable marketplace for this transaction will be a hidden IRC Internet Relay Chat chatroom. The fee will most likely be exchanged in some form of virtual currency such as egold. Coders comparative veterans of the hacking community. With a few years experience at the art and a list of established contacts coders produce readytouse tools i.e. Trojans mailers custom bots or services such as making a binary code undetectable to AV engines to the cybercrime labour force the kids. Coders can make a few hundred dollars for every criminal activity they engage in. Drops the individuals who convert the virtual money obtained in cybercrime into real cash. Usually located in countries with lax ecrime laws Bolivia Indonesia and Malaysia are currently very popular they represent safe addresses for goods purchased with stolen financial details to be sent or else safe legitimate bank accounts for money to be transferred into illegally and paid out of legitimately. Mobs professionally operating criminal organisations combining or utilising all of the functions covered by the above. Organised crime makes particularly good use of safe drops as well as recruiting accomplished coders onto their payrolls. Gaining control of a bank account is increasingly accomplished through phishing. There are other cybercrime techniques but space does not allow their full explanation. In large operations offshore accounts are invariably used to accumulate the criminal spoils. This is more complicated and far more expensive but ultimately safer. The alarming efficiency of cybercrime can be illustrated starkly by comparing it to the illegal narcotics business. One is faster less detectable more profitable generating a return around times higher than the outlay and primarily nonviolent. The other takes months or years to setup or realise an investment is cracked down upon by all almost all governments internationally fraught with expensive overheads and extremely dangerous. Add phishing to the other cybercriminal activities driven by hacking and virus technologies such as carding adwarespyware planting online extortion industrial spying and mobile phone dialers and youll find a healthy community of cottage industries and international organisations working together productively and trading for impressive profits. Of course these people are threatening businesses and individuals with devastating loss financial hardship and troubling uncertainty and must be stopped. On top of viruses worms bots and Trojan attacks organisations in particular are contending with social engineering deception and traffic masquerading as legitimate applications on the network. In a reactive approach to this onslaught companies have been layering their networks with stand alone firewalls intrusion prevention devices antivirus and antispyware solutions in a desperate attempt to plug holes in the armoury. Theyre beginning to recognise its a failed strategy. After all billions of pounds are being spent on security technology and yet security breaches continue to rise. To fight cybercrime there needs to be a tightening of international digital legislation and of crossborder law enforcement coordination. But there also needs to be a more creative and inventive response from the organisations under threat. Piecemeal reactive security solutions are giving way to strategically deployed multithreat security systems. Instead of having to install manage and maintain disparate devices organisations can consolidate their security capabilities into a commonly managed appliance. These measures combined in addition to greater user education are the best safeguard against the deviousness and pure innovation of cybercriminal activities. 
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
On the first floor of a building in Noidas Sector a team of sits behind workstations. While some examine a black suitcase hooked to wires others look at a screen attached to a smaller device.
With four cubicles devoted to email tracking data acquisition and recovery social media investigation and mobile phone surveillance this is the Centre for Cyber Crime Investigation CCCI Uttar Pradeshs first cyber crime centre which will be inaugurated Monday. With around cases of cyber crime reported in Noida in this cell has been equipped with stateoftheart tools to tackle cases related to financial fraud data theft social media crimes among others.
In cases of cyber crimes techniques used for preventing solving and analysing traditional crimes are not of much help. The manner in which these crimes take place and the material recovered in such cases are different from regular crimes. Most of this material is in digital form and one needs specific hardware and software for analysing it said Dinesh Yadav SP City Noida.
Yadav will lead a team of members at CCCI. Elaborating on the social media investigation section Yadav said his team will look at crimes related to platforms like Facebook and Twitter.
A huge portion of cyber crimes committed on social media target women. Several times such complaints are not filed with police. We do not reveal the identity of the complainant and using advanced software tools we will tackle cases he said.
Pointing to a disk imaging tool at the Data Acquisition and Recovery Section Yadav said the equipment will help police create images of the hard disk before its data is examined forensically a crucial step in using digital evidence in courts.
The data acquisition and recovery section is the most crucial where all forensic tools are used. A separate forensic tool for mobile phones has also been procured. A lot of financial fraud cases come to us where a persons email account is misused. We are equipped to track the origin of such emails Yadav added.
Last year on September a resident of Gautam Budh Nagar received a phone call informing him that he had been shortlisted for a contest. The caller claiming to be from a web portal asked the man to register for the next level of the contest online. While directing him through the registration process the caller was able to obtain his bank account details and duped him of nearly Rs lakh.
This was one of around cases of financial fraud which came to Gautam Budh Nagar police in . With the Centre for Cyber Crime Investigation CCCI being inaugurated Monday police said they would be better equipped to handle such cases.
Last year money looted through cyber crime frauds amounted to Rs crore. Of this we managed recover Rs lakh and seal fake call centres. With the help of advanced tools we will be able to solve cases faster said Dinesh Yadav SP City Noida.
Strengthening the security and resilience of cyberspace has become an important homeland security mission.
Todays world is more interconnected than ever before. Yet for all its advantages increased connectivity brings increased risk of theft fraud and abuse.
DHS works with each federal civilian department and agency to effectively respond to everchanging threats against their networks.
DHS draws on the Nations full range of expertise and resources to secure critical infrastructure from cyber threats.
DHS provides assistance to potentially impacted entities analyzes the potential impact across critical infrastructure investigates those responsible in conjunction with law enforcement partners and coordinates the national response to significant cyber incidents.
Protects businesses and individuals from Internetbased risks and from risks relating to information technology infrastructure and activities.
Information sharing is essential to the protection of critical infrastructure and to furthering cybersecurity for the nation.
Every time we connect to the Internet we make decisions that affect our cybersecurity.
America needs well trained professionals working in cybersecurity roles. These professionals are critical in both private industry and the government for the security of individuals and the nation. The Department of Homeland Security DHS is committed to strengthening the nations cybersecurity workforce through standardizing roles and helping to ensure we have welltrained cybersecurity workers today as well as a strong pipeline of future cybersecurity leaders of tomorrow.
The demand for an experienced and qualified workforce to protect our Nations networks and information systems has never been higher.
DHS empowers its cybersecurity programs to succeed by integrating privacy protections from the outset.
DHS continues to research and develop new innovative solutions to complex cybersecurity problems.
Information on implementation of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of and DHSs Automated Indicator Sharing AIS initiative.
Drawing upon decades of experience RAND provides research services systematic analysis and innovative thinking to a global clientele that includes government agencies foundations and privatesector firms.
The Pardee RAND Graduate School PRGS.edu is the largest public policy Ph.D. program in the nation and the only program based at an independent public policy research organizationthe RAND Corporation.
A wide range of computer security threats existsincluding faulty software password trafficking and fraud and hostile groups intending to inflict damageand awareness of these threats varies. RAND has conducted research to measure and increase understanding of the impact of cybercrime on businesses and governments and has addressed such issues as the pros and cons of counterattack the value of deterrence and vigilance and actions that can be taken in the face of cyberattack.
Black and gray markets for computer hacking tools services and byproducts such as stolen credit card numbers continue to expand creating an increasing threat to businesses governments and individuals.
Software tools created by the U.S. State Department to encourage the free flow of information online and on mobile phone networks are not likely to be used by criminals to pursue illegal activities. While some have the potential to be used for illicit purposes there are alternative technologies that are better suited.
This issue highlights the stress of military deployments and resilience of military families RAND research on cybercrime network defense and data breaches the th anniversary of RANDs landmark Health Insurance Experiment and more.
A growing threat is emanating from a digital underworld where hackers sell their services like mercenaries and creditcard numbers can be had for pennies on the dollar.
Lillian Ablon a cybersecurity and emerging technologies researcher spoke at a RAND Policy Circle Conversation on the worlds expanding cyber vulnerability those who are out there to take advantage of those vulnerabilities as well as consumer attitudes toward breaches.
In this May congressional briefing RAND experts Scott W. Harold and Martin Libicki discuss the differing perspectives and interests of the United States and China in cyberspace.
Vulnerabilities are flaws or mistakes in computerbased systems that may be exploited to compromise the network and information security of affected systems.
About a quarter of American adults reported that they were notified about their personal information being part of a data breach in the previous year but only percent of those who have ever been notified say they stopped doing business with the hacked company afterwards.
This infographic highlights the results of a study of consumer attitudes toward data breaches notifications of those breaches and company responses to such events.
About a quarter of American adults surveyed reported that they received a data breach notification in the past year but percent of them were highly satisfied with the companys postbreach response. Only percent of respondents stopped dealing with the company afterwards.
Cyber criminals may be preying on hospitals because cyber protection measures likely have not kept pace with electronic data collection and because hospitals typically do not have backup systems and databases in place even though such attacks can strain health care systems and potentially put patients lives at risk.
The economic importance and visibility of Americas ports make them attractive terrorism targets. Port security has improved but many of the threats that motivated the Safe Ports Act in remain and new dangers have emerged including cyber threats.
To prevail against ISIS in cyberspace the United States and its cyber soldiers will have to be capable of reacting quickly while being guided by an overarching strategy. Secretary of Defense Carter urged U.S. Cyber Command to intensify the fight against ISIS but it would also be wise to recruit civilian volunteers.
The United States needs a smooth wellfunctioning mutual aid system for cybersecurity that provides all of the hardwon benefits of the nations system for hurricanes and other emergencies.
The tensions that divide the United States and China apply just as much to cyberspace as to relations in the physical world. Can the two countries achieve meaningful outcomes through formal negotiations over cyber norms and rules
The AppleFBI case should spark a broader debate among technology companies concerning their role in maintaining the privacy and security balance. A starting point should be to recognize that the majority of cyberattacks are related to phishingand a users actionnot to whether a device can be secured.
Some notorious cyberattacks have been carried out by computersavvy teens. They dont all have criminal intentions they just have a particular aptitude for writing code and operating in cyberspace. The U.S. military should consider embracing and cultivating this pool of talent.
The digital dependence in developed countries has led to a situation where security vulnerabilities and security incidents potentially come accompanied by serious consequences. With this in mind RAND Europe investigated why where and how organisations in critical infrastructure sectors invest in cybersecurity.
For the first time Gallup included cyberterrorism in its annual survey of Americans concerns about threats to U.S. interests and percent of respondents said they felt it was a critical threat. The survey results come amid a flurry of activity on the issue on Capitol Hill and at the White House.
Document submitted on February as an addendum to testimony presented before the House Armed Services Committee on September .
Cyberspace is expanding becoming more vulnerable and hosting increasingly vast amounts of data. Compounding this challenge is the growing number of bad actors seeking to exploit cyberspace. What steps can be taken to help mitigate emerging threats and improve U.S. cybersecurity
Technology is thoroughly embedded within the average persons life but security is not emphasized to the general user. Teaching the importance of security early on and continually bringing awareness to the public could help temper technologybased attacks.
Daniel Gonzales is a senior scientist at the RAND Corporation. His areas of expertise include command control and communications and intelligence CI systems information technology IT cloud computing cyber security electronic warfare EW and critical infrastructure. He has examined
Joshua Baron is an information scientist at the RAND Corporation and a professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School. His work focuses on policy implications of emerging technologies for cybersecurity computer network operations virtual currencies and cryptography. Before coming to RAND Baron
The RAND Corporation is a research organization that develops solutions to public policy challenges to help make communities throughout the world safer and more secure healthier and more prosperous. RAND is nonprofit nonpartisan and committed to the public interest.
Subscribe to the weekly Policy Currents newsletter to receive updates on the issues that matter most.
EveryLineCountshighlights extreme violence exploitation and environmental harm of cocaine
The National Crime Agency NCA leads UK law enforcements fight to cut serious and organised crime. We have national and international reach and the mandate and powers to work in partnership with other law enforcement organisations to bring the full weight of the law to bear on serious and organised criminals.
Organised crime is one of the greatest threats to the UKs national security.The role of the NCA is to disrupt and bring to justice those serious and organised criminals who present the highest risk to the UK.
Organised crime covers a diverse range of activities.Defining organised crime in terms of specific threats is a practical way of understanding and tackling it. Analysis of these threats can also be found in the National Strategic Assessment
The NCA works in partnership with Crimestoppers as well as UK and overseas law enforcement to locate and arrest individuals who are wanted and believed to be overseas.
Maer Asiantaeth Troseddu Cenedlaethol NCA yn arwain brwydr gorfodir gyfraith y DU yn erbyn trosedd difrifol a threfnedig
The Border Policing Command BPC is a vital part of the Governments approach to increased border security.
Economic crime poses a major and growing threat to the wellbeing of the UK and its people. The purpose of the Economic Crime Command ECC is to reduce the impact of economic crime including the financing of serious and organised crime on UK society and the UK economy.
The Organised Crime Command OCC leads supports and coordinates the national effort to identify pursue and disrupt serious and organised criminals.
The NCCU leads the UKs response to cyber crime supports partners with specialist capabilities and coordinates the national response to the most serious of cyber crime threats.
The CEOP command is dedicated to eradicating the sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children and young people.
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our User Agreement and Privacy Policy.
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our Privacy Policy and User Agreement for details.
Clipping is a handy way to collect and organize the most important slides from a presentation. You can keep your great finds in clipboards organized around topics.
Columnist Hasan Suroor a British journalist of Indian origin has been arrested following a video sting operation by an antipaedophile group. 
The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited ONGC is one of Indias third most profitable companies and as of May posted a consolidated net profit of.
Cybercrime is on the rise in India and we are one of the top worsthit countries in the world. Some of these crimes are orchestrated from outside Indias borders but local hackers are doing damage as well. Where then are the stories and images of these homegrown cyber criminals
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
Washington AFP Sextortion using nude photos of someone to press for even racier content or other goods is surprisingly common a US think tank says in what it calls the first indepth study of another danger lurking in cyberspace.
Most victims are minors the predators are almost always men who prey on multiple targets and almost all adult victims are women it said. Most victims choose to stay anonymous out of shame.
And while US law enforcement officials acknowledge the problem no agency or advocacy group keeps data on it said the Brookings Institution which published the study on Wednesday.
Even the term sextortion is not a real word but rather slang that prosecutors use to refer to an offense that does not fit neatly into a single category.
Depending on where you are in America it can be prosecuted as child pornography stalking extortion or hacking. But sextortion as a crime per se does not exist the think tank said.
Sextortion can entail a hack into someones computer to rob a sexy picture or video or take over a webcam then the use of this content to extort victims for even more.
It is even more common for perpetrators to resort to social media to elicit a photograph from a victim than use it to demand more.
The Brookings Institution said it studied cases from recent years that met its definition of sextortion and many others that contained elements of it.
Those were prosecuted in states and territories of the United States and three foreign jurisdictions.
For the first time in the history of the world the global connectivity of the Internet means that you dont have to be in the same country as someone to sexually menace that person the study states.
Those cases involve at least victims. But for a variety of reasons such as prosecutors not seeking out all victims of a given predator the true number of victims from those cases could actually range from to or even more the study said.
An accompanying report from the same think tank detailed how sentencing of people convicted in sextortion cases varies wildly because some are tried in federal court and some in state court.
One man accused of victimizing at least young boys and tried in a state court got a prison sentence of a year. But another alleged to have had one victim faced trial in federal court and got years the study found.
The key to ending the disparity it added is for Congress to pass a federal sextortion law incorporating elements present in federal sexual abuse extortion child pornography and abusive sexual contact statutes.
The first report on the offense itself also provided harrowing details of actual sextortion cases.
One involved a woman who opened an email from an unknown sender and found sexually explicit photos of herself data about her job husband and three kids and a demand for a porno video of her.
And if she did not send it within one day he threatened to publish the images already in his possession and let her family know about her dark side the study said.
Cyber crime is a top fraud concern for UK businesses according to the latest EY Global Fraud Survey.
UK businesses see cyber crime as a bigger threat than their international counterparts with of respondents rating it as a high risk to their organisation compared with globally.
By submitting my Email address I confirm that I have read and accepted the Terms of Use and Declaration of Consent.
By submitting your email address you agree to receive emails regarding relevant topic offers from TechTarget and its partners. You can withdraw your consent at any time. Contact TechTarget at Grove Street Newton MA. 
You also agree that your personal information may be transferred and processed in the United States and that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy.
Businesses are also more concerned with the cyber threat from their own employees than from organised crime .
Paul Walker head of forensic technology and discovery services at EY said this may not necessarily indicate mistrust between employers and employees.
The issue is whether employees take cyber crime as seriously as management do and the fact that employees are sometimes seen as the weak link he said.
The survey included indepth interviews with more than executives across countries including chief financial officers chief compliance officers general counsel and heads of internal audit.
The rest of the world is playing catchup with the UK in recognising cyber crime as a serious threat said John Smart head of EYs UK fraud investigation and dispute services practice.
Highprofile cyber crime incidents and a number of government initiatives may have played an important role in ensuring high awareness of this issue among UK business leaders he said.
However Smart said businesses now need to look at how they respond to these dangers.
Awareness is just the beginning and business leaders need to ensure robust incident response strategies are in place he said.
By submitting you agree to receive email from TechTarget and its partners. If you reside outside of the United States you consent to having your personal data transferred to and processed in the United States. Privacy
Blockchain observers talk a lot about the widespread impact the technology will have on various industries but pinpointing use .
Bill Caraher CIO and director of operations for a Wisconsin law firm is one believer in the huge impact blockchain technology .
The House Homeland Security Committee officially proposed the creation of a commission to study both sides of the encryption .
Threats evolve so your mobile security must too. Learn how an app container app wrapper and other tactics help keep bad guys .
Understanding your network is critical and endtoend visibility is the key to accessing the full potential of hybrid IT.
Cisco spends million on technology that secures mobile users access to the cloud. Its the latest addition to the Cisco .
Startup Mist rolls out a wireless service that blends artificial intelligence virtual Bluetooth Low Energy beacons and .
IT teams need to strike a balance between keeping up with the latest technology and being costeffective. Proper IT lifecycle .
With RHEL hitting platform maturity Red Hats future includes Microsoft integration expanded management and a smaller footprint.
Data center challenges come in all shapes and sizes but by keeping close tabs on systems and data admins can be ready to react.
IBM InfoSphere Information Server for Data Integration provides a single unified platform for application integration cloud .
Thanks to ubiquitous mobile technology field data is more readily accessible to ESRIs Survey for ArcGIS. A relief .
SAP Data Services can be used alone or with other SAP products to provide data integration transformation data quality data .
Director of UWA Centre for Software Practice University of Western Australia
Fellow for Cybersecurity and Internet Governance School of International and Public Affairs Columbia University
Fron JacksonWebb The Conversation Michael Courts The Conversation Emil Jeyaratnam The Conversation and Wes Mountain The Conversation
Jul Partnership aims to provide clients with an overall visibility and control of their IT security
Jul The TRA advises families on how to ensure their childrens activities on social networks are safe
Jun CompTIA reveals of UAE businesses have experienced a mobilerelated security incident in the past months 
Jun Roughly half of those surveyed assessed their response capabilities have been implemented without proper planning or is virtually nonexistent. 
Jun Harish Chib VP for Middle East Africa at Sophos on how the company is working to close gaping security holes in networks 
Jun Marc Hanne director of sales DACH CEE and Middle East for HID Global on how physical security is blending with mobility 
Jun Hussam Sidani regional manager for Gulf Symantec on cybercriminals shifting tactics 
Jun Hackers OurMine are on the rampage again and continue to target celebrities and CEOs
Jun Observant viewers noticed that Mark Zuckerberg uses cellotape as a security solution to prevent spying
ITP.net is the Gulfs longestrunning technology news site touching on national regional and global events relevant to CIOs and techsavvy consumers.
Despite Visakhapatnam being the second city after Bangalore to top the cyber crime list there is no independent cyber crime police station under the police commissionerate. 
What exists is a cyber crime cell manned by one inspector who is on deputation from the Central Crime Station and is assisted by one subinspector and five constables.
The State too does not have such a facility postbifurcation. Prior to bifurcation there were two cyber crime police stations one in Cyberabad and the other under the Hyderabad Commissionerate. 
They still exist and each is under an ACP rank officer who is assisted by three CI rank officers. And the combined staff strength is put at over . 
Since the number of cyber offences has exceeded the mark in the city. And despite being just a cyber cell and grossly understaffed the sleuths have detected over cases.
Former Commissioner of Police B. Shivadhar Reddy had sent three proposals to the then government to upgrade the cyber cell into a fullfledged police station but the proposals appear to gather dust. 
Cyber crime is on the rise and we need to upgrade the cell. It is the need of the hour said a senior police officer. 
Moreover cyber crime is relatively new and our officers have to be trained to handle it he added. 
Recently the Maharashtra government had sent officers from the Cyber Crime Department of Mumbai police to the U.S. for training. 
The cyber cell in Visakhapatnam lacks basic equipment and software. All that it has is two rickety laptops which have been borrowed from other departments. 
Recently a senior executive of a private company was on his way to office after drawing cash from a bank. 
He was on the move on a twowheeler when some unidentified persons sprinkled some powder on his back. 
He immediately felt an itching sensation. But using his presence of mind he drove straight to office without stopping. This saved his day. 
Appreciating the common sense of the executive ADCP Crime S. Varada Raju said it could be the handiwork of some attention diversion gang. 
There is concrete information that interState gangs are on the prowl in the city. And they are preying on persons who come to bank to draw cash. 
There were about three incidents in the recent times and we had increased our vigilance he said.
They may simply come from behind and gently tap on ones shoulders to divert the attention or sprinkle chilli powder to distract the victim he said. 
A senior police officer from the CCS advises people to use bags with slings that can be put around shoulders so that it is not easy to snatch. 
The Cyber Crime Police station shall have the jurisdiction in respec t of all the offences comitted under the Informatio Technology Act and laws relating to Intellectual property rights and other related offences under any law for the time being in force COMMITTED IN THE COURSE OF THE SAME TRANSACTION. As per the ammendments to the IT Act the minimum rank of investigation of cyber crimes is POLICE INSPECTOR and any jurisdicational police station can register and investigate.
Drawing upon decades of experience RAND provides research services systematic analysis and innovative thinking to a global clientele that includes government agencies foundations and privatesector firms.
The Pardee RAND Graduate School PRGS.edu is the largest public policy Ph.D. program in the nation and the only program based at an independent public policy research organizationthe RAND Corporation.
A wide range of computer security threats existsincluding faulty software password trafficking and fraud and hostile groups intending to inflict damageand awareness of these threats varies. RAND has conducted research to measure and increase understanding of the impact of cybercrime on businesses and governments and has addressed such issues as the pros and cons of counterattack the value of deterrence and vigilance and actions that can be taken in the face of cyberattack.
Black and gray markets for computer hacking tools services and byproducts such as stolen credit card numbers continue to expand creating an increasing threat to businesses governments and individuals.
Software tools created by the U.S. State Department to encourage the free flow of information online and on mobile phone networks are not likely to be used by criminals to pursue illegal activities. While some have the potential to be used for illicit purposes there are alternative technologies that are better suited.
This issue highlights the stress of military deployments and resilience of military families RAND research on cybercrime network defense and data breaches the th anniversary of RANDs landmark Health Insurance Experiment and more.
A growing threat is emanating from a digital underworld where hackers sell their services like mercenaries and creditcard numbers can be had for pennies on the dollar.
Lillian Ablon a cybersecurity and emerging technologies researcher spoke at a RAND Policy Circle Conversation on the worlds expanding cyber vulnerability those who are out there to take advantage of those vulnerabilities as well as consumer attitudes toward breaches.
In this May congressional briefing RAND experts Scott W. Harold and Martin Libicki discuss the differing perspectives and interests of the United States and China in cyberspace.
Vulnerabilities are flaws or mistakes in computerbased systems that may be exploited to compromise the network and information security of affected systems.
About a quarter of American adults reported that they were notified about their personal information being part of a data breach in the previous year but only percent of those who have ever been notified say they stopped doing business with the hacked company afterwards.
This infographic highlights the results of a study of consumer attitudes toward data breaches notifications of those breaches and company responses to such events.
About a quarter of American adults surveyed reported that they received a data breach notification in the past year but percent of them were highly satisfied with the companys postbreach response. Only percent of respondents stopped dealing with the company afterwards.
Cyber criminals may be preying on hospitals because cyber protection measures likely have not kept pace with electronic data collection and because hospitals typically do not have backup systems and databases in place even though such attacks can strain health care systems and potentially put patients lives at risk.
The economic importance and visibility of Americas ports make them attractive terrorism targets. Port security has improved but many of the threats that motivated the Safe Ports Act in remain and new dangers have emerged including cyber threats.
To prevail against ISIS in cyberspace the United States and its cyber soldiers will have to be capable of reacting quickly while being guided by an overarching strategy. Secretary of Defense Carter urged U.S. Cyber Command to intensify the fight against ISIS but it would also be wise to recruit civilian volunteers.
The United States needs a smooth wellfunctioning mutual aid system for cybersecurity that provides all of the hardwon benefits of the nations system for hurricanes and other emergencies.
The tensions that divide the United States and China apply just as much to cyberspace as to relations in the physical world. Can the two countries achieve meaningful outcomes through formal negotiations over cyber norms and rules
The AppleFBI case should spark a broader debate among technology companies concerning their role in maintaining the privacy and security balance. A starting point should be to recognize that the majority of cyberattacks are related to phishingand a users actionnot to whether a device can be secured.
Some notorious cyberattacks have been carried out by computersavvy teens. They dont all have criminal intentions they just have a particular aptitude for writing code and operating in cyberspace. The U.S. military should consider embracing and cultivating this pool of talent.
The digital dependence in developed countries has led to a situation where security vulnerabilities and security incidents potentially come accompanied by serious consequences. With this in mind RAND Europe investigated why where and how organisations in critical infrastructure sectors invest in cybersecurity.
For the first time Gallup included cyberterrorism in its annual survey of Americans concerns about threats to U.S. interests and percent of respondents said they felt it was a critical threat. The survey results come amid a flurry of activity on the issue on Capitol Hill and at the White House.
Document submitted on February as an addendum to testimony presented before the House Armed Services Committee on September .
Cyberspace is expanding becoming more vulnerable and hosting increasingly vast amounts of data. Compounding this challenge is the growing number of bad actors seeking to exploit cyberspace. What steps can be taken to help mitigate emerging threats and improve U.S. cybersecurity
Technology is thoroughly embedded within the average persons life but security is not emphasized to the general user. Teaching the importance of security early on and continually bringing awareness to the public could help temper technologybased attacks.
Daniel Gonzales is a senior scientist at the RAND Corporation. His areas of expertise include command control and communications and intelligence CI systems information technology IT cloud computing cyber security electronic warfare EW and critical infrastructure. He has examined
Joshua Baron is an information scientist at the RAND Corporation and a professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School. His work focuses on policy implications of emerging technologies for cybersecurity computer network operations virtual currencies and cryptography. Before coming to RAND Baron
The RAND Corporation is a research organization that develops solutions to public policy challenges to help make communities throughout the world safer and more secure healthier and more prosperous. RAND is nonprofit nonpartisan and committed to the public interest.
Subscribe to the weekly Policy Currents newsletter to receive updates on the issues that matter most.
Increase brought about by inclusion of new offences masks fall in underlying rate in survey of peoples experience of crime
The crime rate for England and Wales has doubled to more than .m offences according to the latest figures.
The sharp rise in the headline figures is due to the inclusion of an estimated .m online fraud incidents and .m cybercrime offences for the first time.
The crime survey for England and Wales which is based on peoples experience of crime shows that the underlying crime rate excluding cybercrime continued to fall by to an estimated .m offences in the months to June. 
Separate policerecorded figures show a increase in crime including a increase in violence against the person. Sexual offences including rape rose by over the past year which police say is indicative of a greater willingness of victims to report such crimes.
The growth in sexual offences recorded by the police includes an increase of in reported rapes and a rise in reports of other sexual offences. 
Statisticians said it reflects a change in police attitudes in the past months with officers now talking about reports of rape and no longer referring to allegations of rape. But they also point to crime survey evidence that shows the proportion of adults who report being a victim of sexual assault remains under .
The Office for National Statistics ONS said the publication of an official estimate of fraud and cybercrime alongside the crime survey of England and Wales follows growing concern that the rise in cybercrime makes up for the longterm fall in crime from a peak of m offences in to .m offences by June.
The first estimate shows that there were up to .m incidents of online fraud involving . million victims in the past months. Just over half involved some initial financial loss to the victims and more than were compensated in full.
The addition of the online fraud offences to the crime survey figure of .m offences leads to a headline figure of .m estimated criminal incidents compared with the m estimate for the year to June .
An ONS field trial also estimated that there were .m computer misuse incidents where a victims computer is infected by a virus. 
The statisticians said they had an open mind on whether to include these within the headline crime rate as often such attacks are blocked by antivirus protection and not experienced as a crime by the victim. But they do say that phishing and other attacks are offences under the Computer Misuse Act and could be included.
The inclusion of these .m cybercrime incidents brings the headline total in the official estimates to .m double the m estimated crimes in the year to June .
The detailed figures for online fraud show of victims lost less than lost less than and a further lost less than . One per cent lost more than .
Furthermore these new estimates should be seen in the context of a reduction over the past years in the more traditional forms of crime from m incidents a year in to under m a year today.
The Home Office disputed whether the new estimates for online fraud and cybercrime should be added to the headline figure to create a new total arguing that they were derived from trial data from a smaller sample and should be treated as first estimates rather than official statistics.
We need to go further. And we will. We are working in partnership with industry and consumers to ensure crime continues to decrease. The number of people experiencing computer viruses has fallen in recent years and plastic card fraud is down by more than a quarter since largely as the result of the introduction of chip and pin.
Having an accurate national picture is critical to informing our ongoing response. Todays figures represent worldleading work by the ONS supported by the Home Office to reveal something we have always known but were previously unable to quantify.
Todays world is more interconnected than ever before. Yet for all its advantages increased connectivity brings increased risk of theft fraud and abuse. As Americans become more reliant on modern technology we also become more vulnerable to cyberattacks such as corporate security breaches spear phishing and social media fraud. Complementary cybersecurity and law enforcement capabilities are critical to safeguarding and securing cyberspace. Law enforcement performs an essential role in achieving our nations cybersecurity objectives by investigating a wide range of cyber crimes from theft and fraud to child exploitation and apprehending and prosecuting those responsible. The Department of Homeland Security DHS works with other federal agencies to conduct highimpact criminal investigations to disrupt and defeat cyber criminals prioritize the recruitment and training of technical experts develop standardized methods and broadly share cyber response best practices and tools. Criminal investigators and network security experts with deep understanding of the technologies malicious actors are using and the specific vulnerabilities they are targeting work to effectively respond to and investigate cyber incidents.
DHS components such as the U.S. Secret Service and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE have special divisions dedicated to combating cyber crime.
The U.S. Secret Service maintains Electronic Crimes Task Forces which focus on identifying and locating international cyber criminals connected to cyber intrusions bank fraud data breaches and other computerrelated crimes. The Secret Services Cyber Intelligence Section has directly contributed to the arrest of transnational cyber criminals responsible for the theft of hundreds of millions of credit card numbers and the loss of approximately million to financial and retail institutions. The Secret Service also runs the National Computer Forensic Institute which provides law enforcement officers prosecutors and judges with cyber training and information to combat cyber crime.
The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE Homeland Security Investigations HSI Cyber Crimes Center C delivers computerbased technical services to support domestic and international investigations into crossborder crime. C is made up of the Cyber Crimes Unit the Child Exploitation Investigations Unit and the Computer Forensics Unit. This stateoftheart center offers cyber crime support and training to federal state local and international law enforcement agencies. C also operates a fully equipped computer forensics laboratory which specializes in digital evidence recovery and offers training in computer investigative and forensic skills.
The Law Enforcement Cyber Incident Reporting resource provides information for state local tribal and territorial SLTT law enforcement on when what and how to report a cyber incident to a federal entity. The document also provides information on federally sponsored training opportunities and other useful resources available to SLTT law enforcement.
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
The online company which has an app that lets people turn photos on their mobiles into postcards said it had been targeted by criminals and some customer data had been stolen. 
The stolen details include customer names email addresses and postal addresses while there were also some recorded instances of dates of birth being accessed the company said. 
The news comes just after TalkTalk announced the details of customers and bank account numbers were accessed in last months cyber attack.
A teenager who took his own life after being blackmailed by strangers online is every parents worst nightmare his mother has said.
Whoever was at the other end of that computer did not know Daniel. They didnt care that he was a loving and caring person with his whole life ahead of him. To them he was just another faceless victim to exploit for cash.
Losing Daniel has left us all devastated and we are still trying to come to terms with what has happened.
Interpol the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and authorities in the Philippines joined a major criminal inquiry after a British teenager who was blackmailed online took his own life. 
A young Scottish teenager lost his life as a result of this online activity. The impact on his family friends and wider community cannot be imagined.
British police investigating the death of a teenager who took his own life after being blackmailed by strangers online have been involved in a major international operation targeting cybercrime in the Philippines.
Daniel Perry from Dunfermline in Fife died in July last year after falling victim to an alleged sextortion attempt in which internet users are lured into webcam chats and then blackmailed with the footage.
Inquiries by detectives from Police Scotland revealed an electronic online trail which led to the Philippines and links to organised crime groups there. More than people have been arrested in a series of raids according to Philippine authorities in an operation codenamed Strikeback.
The elderly and the poor are being targeted among around million people who are victims of scams each year according to the Citizens Advice Bureau CAB.
Fraud offences in England Wales were up yearonyear in with over cases reported to Action Fraud the fraud and online crime reporting service.
However CAB said the real figure was likely to be much higher because a lot of fraud goes unreported.
Tens of millions of UK email users may be having their financial details stolen in a mass spamming event according to experts in cyber crime.
The National Crime Agency warned that small and medium businesses are the top targets of the messages that appear to be legitimate emails from banks.
The emails come with attachments that appear to be files containing details of a suspicious transaction but in fact harbour malicious software.
The screen will then display a countdown timer that demands the payment of Bitcoins around a form of currency used for Internet transactions in ransom for the decryption key.
The National Cyber Crime Unit advises that anyone whose computer is infected should report it to www.actionfraud.police.uk.
Crime is at record low levels and this government is taking action to tackle the cyber threat investing more than million through the national cyber security programme to develop and maintain cuttingedge capabilities.
The National Crime Agency will include a new elite National Cyber Crime unit to target the most serious offenders and provide enhanced intelligence for CEOP so they can protect even more children from harm.
But we know we need to keep pace with criminals as they target the web and so we continue to consider ways to ensure the police and security services have access to communications data.
Crime is changing and not falling at the rate that figures suggests the chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales said today after an influential group of MPs found that UK was losing the war against cyber crime in a new report.
It is extremely concerning that relentless cuts to policing are continuing at a time when there is a burgeoning cyber crime industry.
This report highlights how the Government message that its reforms are working because crime is falling is one which is oversimplistic and misleading. It is also rightly acknowledges that online crime can play a direct role in other offences being committed.
Crime is clearly changing not falling at the rate the figures suggest and an unknown but extremely high number of offences are going unreported. The police service needs greater not fewer resources to deal with the challenges of the st century.
The UK is being too complacent about online criminal activity because the victims are hidden in cyberspace the chair of the Home Affairs Select Committee said today after it issued a warning that the country was losing the war on internet crime.
The threat of a cyber attack to the UK is so serious it is marked as a higher threat than a nuclear attack.
You can steal more on the internet than you can by robbing a bank and online criminals in countries have chosen the UK as their number one target. Astonishingly some are operating from EU countries.
If we dont have a st century response to this st century crime we will be letting those involved in these gangs off the hook.
The UK is losing the war against internet crime an influential group of MPs has warned. Despite being the preferred target of online criminals in countries the UK is still complacent towards ecrime as victims are hidden in cyberspace the Home Affairs Select Committee said. 
The group of MPs said sufficient funding and resources for tackling online crime which includes Identity theft industrial espionage credit card fraud and child exploitation has not been allocated.
Tougher sentences for online criminals and improved training for police officers are recommended by the Committee to deal with the growing threat of cyber criminality.
Sometimes a reader needs a good oldfashioned crime story. And if that story happens to be true is told by a former intelligence officer and teaches a great.
TNS Steven Weber wants you to envision a future in which Facebook Twitter even Google have just gone bankrupt a future in which a tech failure.
The Domain Committee on Information Technology in Disaster Risk Reduction DCITDRR has the honor to announce the First IFIP Conference on Information.
Welcome to OVERNIGHT CYBERSECURITY your daily rundown of the biggest news in the world of hacking and data privacy. Were here to connect the dots as.
WASHINGTON The web portal used by millions of consumers to get health insurance under President Barack Obamas law has logged more than .
A Ukrainian computer hacker who fought extradition to the United States and has been accused of trying to frame a prominent cyber security expert pleaded.
A cyberattack that knocked out power in the Ukraine last month is believed to have been initiated by a hacking group with strong Russian interests..
But then comes this weeks revelation from a field trial conducted by the UK Office of National Statistics suggesting that there could have been over ..
Smart TVs are opening a new window of attack for cybercriminals as the security defenses of the devices often lag far behind those of smartphones and.
In mid Israel grew impatient as it still often does over its neighbours. This time it was about the nuclear facility of Natanz in Iran one that Iran.
What do young people and some among the middleaged who are hooked to their smart phones do all day we may wonder. Well a brief questionnaire sent by this.
British retailers will lose millions of pounds to online fraudsters this Christmas an anticybercrime organisation has warned as hackers continue to ramp.
It seems like investors cant get enough of cybersecurity startups and Massachusetts companies are reaping the rewards.
Retail giants arent the only target of hackers who infiltrate computer systems to gain access to sensitive information.
Despite Visakhapatnam being the second city after Bangalore to top the cyber crime list there is no independent cyber crime police station under the police commissionerate. 
What exists is a cyber crime cell manned by one inspector who is on deputation from the Central Crime Station and is assisted by one subinspector and five constables.
The State too does not have such a facility postbifurcation. Prior to bifurcation there were two cyber crime police stations one in Cyberabad and the other under the Hyderabad Commissionerate. 
They still exist and each is under an ACP rank officer who is assisted by three CI rank officers. And the combined staff strength is put at over . 
Since the number of cyber offences has exceeded the mark in the city. And despite being just a cyber cell and grossly understaffed the sleuths have detected over cases.
Former Commissioner of Police B. Shivadhar Reddy had sent three proposals to the then government to upgrade the cyber cell into a fullfledged police station but the proposals appear to gather dust. 
Cyber crime is on the rise and we need to upgrade the cell. It is the need of the hour said a senior police officer. 
Moreover cyber crime is relatively new and our officers have to be trained to handle it he added. 
Recently the Maharashtra government had sent officers from the Cyber Crime Department of Mumbai police to the U.S. for training. 
The cyber cell in Visakhapatnam lacks basic equipment and software. All that it has is two rickety laptops which have been borrowed from other departments. 
Recently a senior executive of a private company was on his way to office after drawing cash from a bank. 
He was on the move on a twowheeler when some unidentified persons sprinkled some powder on his back. 
He immediately felt an itching sensation. But using his presence of mind he drove straight to office without stopping. This saved his day. 
Appreciating the common sense of the executive ADCP Crime S. Varada Raju said it could be the handiwork of some attention diversion gang. 
There is concrete information that interState gangs are on the prowl in the city. And they are preying on persons who come to bank to draw cash. 
There were about three incidents in the recent times and we had increased our vigilance he said.
They may simply come from behind and gently tap on ones shoulders to divert the attention or sprinkle chilli powder to distract the victim he said. 
A senior police officer from the CCS advises people to use bags with slings that can be put around shoulders so that it is not easy to snatch. 
The selection and placement of stories are determined automatically by a computer program powered by Europe Media Monitor.
EveryLineCountshighlights extreme violence exploitation and environmental harm of cocaine
The National Crime Agency NCA leads UK law enforcements fight to cut serious and organised crime. We have national and international reach and the mandate and powers to work in partnership with other law enforcement organisations to bring the full weight of the law to bear on serious and organised criminals.
Organised crime is one of the greatest threats to the UKs national security.The role of the NCA is to disrupt and bring to justice those serious and organised criminals who present the highest risk to the UK.
Organised crime covers a diverse range of activities.Defining organised crime in terms of specific threats is a practical way of understanding and tackling it. Analysis of these threats can also be found in the National Strategic Assessment
The NCA works in partnership with Crimestoppers as well as UK and overseas law enforcement to locate and arrest individuals who are wanted and believed to be overseas.
Maer Asiantaeth Troseddu Cenedlaethol NCA yn arwain brwydr gorfodir gyfraith y DU yn erbyn trosedd difrifol a threfnedig
The Border Policing Command BPC is a vital part of the Governments approach to increased border security.
Economic crime poses a major and growing threat to the wellbeing of the UK and its people. The purpose of the Economic Crime Command ECC is to reduce the impact of economic crime including the financing of serious and organised crime on UK society and the UK economy.
The Organised Crime Command OCC leads supports and coordinates the national effort to identify pursue and disrupt serious and organised criminals.
The NCCU leads the UKs response to cyber crime supports partners with specialist capabilities and coordinates the national response to the most serious of cyber crime threats.
The CEOP command is dedicated to eradicating the sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children and young people.
Sometimes a reader needs a good oldfashioned crime story. And if that story happens to be true is told by a former intelligence officer and teaches a great.
TNS Steven Weber wants you to envision a future in which Facebook Twitter even Google have just gone bankrupt a future in which a tech failure.
The Domain Committee on Information Technology in Disaster Risk Reduction DCITDRR has the honor to announce the First IFIP Conference on Information.
Welcome to OVERNIGHT CYBERSECURITY your daily rundown of the biggest news in the world of hacking and data privacy. Were here to connect the dots as.
WASHINGTON The web portal used by millions of consumers to get health insurance under President Barack Obamas law has logged more than .
A Ukrainian computer hacker who fought extradition to the United States and has been accused of trying to frame a prominent cyber security expert pleaded.
A cyberattack that knocked out power in the Ukraine last month is believed to have been initiated by a hacking group with strong Russian interests..
But then comes this weeks revelation from a field trial conducted by the UK Office of National Statistics suggesting that there could have been over ..
Smart TVs are opening a new window of attack for cybercriminals as the security defenses of the devices often lag far behind those of smartphones and.
In mid Israel grew impatient as it still often does over its neighbours. This time it was about the nuclear facility of Natanz in Iran one that Iran.
What do young people and some among the middleaged who are hooked to their smart phones do all day we may wonder. Well a brief questionnaire sent by this.
British retailers will lose millions of pounds to online fraudsters this Christmas an anticybercrime organisation has warned as hackers continue to ramp.
It seems like investors cant get enough of cybersecurity startups and Massachusetts companies are reaping the rewards.
Retail giants arent the only target of hackers who infiltrate computer systems to gain access to sensitive information.
A Scranton TimesTribune All Access subscription gets you complete access to both our print and digital publications delivered to your home desktop and mobile devices days a week
HARRISBURG Pearl Harbor dealt the first major setback to plans to build a scenic parkway in the Poconos that would rival the Skyline Drive and Blue Ridge Parkway in Virginia as a tourism draw. 
Debbie Grenewicz was concerned when she heard the message left on her cellphone. The reason for this call is to inform you the IRS is filing a lawsuit against you 
Bill Clinton is revered by many as a political genius despite the sex scandal that tarnished his presidency and laid the tawdry groundwork for a Republican resurgence that continues nearly years after Monica Lewinsky became a household name.
PLYMOUTH TWP. State police on Tuesday filed charges for DUI and child endangerment against a WilkesBarre dentist who championed a law change to crack down on suspected drunken drivers after his son was killed by a hitandrun driver. Stephen F. Miller
Fred Gentile of Mount Cobb did his part to defend the nations freedom and independence with a pair of barbers scissors and a baseball.
For Joseph Kabwe and his family independence day came twice in less than a weeks time. 
Smoke from fireworks the night before had given way to sunshine and yoga instructor Hilary Steinberg spoke softly into a headset microphone to more than people stretched out on rubber mats.
Luzerne County Detective Charles Chaz Balough leaves the office at the Luzerne County Courthouse.Mark Morancvbaloughp
MARK MORAN STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER Luzerne County Detective Charles Balogh works in a basement office at the Luzerne County Courthouse.
WILKESBARRE In a cramped office at the Luzerne County Courthouse Detective Chaz Balogh started the week by studying a pair of disturbing reports from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
There was a report of someone using Dropbox to share images and videos of a young boy engaged in sex acts in one case with his legs wrist and neck bound.
The other case involved a video posted to YouTube portraying young children engaged in inappropriate conduct including exposing themselves. Detective Balogh says he wants to know who put it online. And what else is going on in that house.
Its very abnormal for kids that age to do those things Detective Balogh said. It would be very hard for me to believe that they uploaded it but who knows
It was the start of a typical day for Detective Balogh who is the first Luzerne County detective to specialize in investigating cyber crimes. He investigated the first child porn case in county history to go to trial joining Assistant District Attorney Jenny Roberts in winning the first guilty verdict rendered by a jury in such a case here.
He was involved in the doublemurder case against Hugo Selenski and memorably came up with two key witnesses midtrial in the case against former Coughlin High School dean of students Stephen Stahl witnesses the defense said completely changed the playing field and helped convict Mr. Stahl of having a sexual relationship with a student.
With hair shaved into a military highandtight style Detective Balogh works from a small cubicle in the courthouse basement surrounded by motivational quotes such as Were here because theyre out there and We work for God. Also looking down on him at his desk are pictures of his daughter now who Detective Balogh says has been a driving force behind his work.
Because of what he sees every day Detective Balogh said he closely tracks her online activities and has put stuff on her devices to protect her. Her friends might say its weird but Detective Balogh says his daughter understands.
I feel that you can never be an overprotective parent because of what I see Detective Balogh said. I always tell her Listen I can only tell you how this upsets me because I see it every day. I dont want you to ever be a part of that.
A lifelong resident of Luzerne County Detective Balogh said he was always interested in a career in law enforcement. As a child neighborhood kids would poke fun at him for making siren sounds while riding his Big Wheel tricycle he said. But inspired by family members in law enforcement as well as neighbor and WilkesBarre police officer Brian Lavan Detective Balogh was determined to have a career as a lawman.
As a young man Detective Balogh joined the Coast Guard with plans to spend a career busting up crime on the high seas. But then he was injured in a crash and found himself out of a career.
A drunk driver interrupted my life Detective Balogh said. But you know everything happens for a reason. Im a firm believer of this because Im doing pretty good in life right now.
In he landed a job with the Luzerne County Sheriffs Office. He liked working as a deputy but he said he wanted to do more than serve documents and escort prisoners.
Detective Balogh enrolled in the police academy and after graduating began working part time as an officer in Luzerne borough.
In January Detective Balogh got a job as a community service officer helping to educate the public about safety issues for the district attorneys office under David W. Lupas who is now a county judge.
Over the years he worked part time in several other municipalities getting his first real taste of cyber crime policing in White Haven he said.
It was and Detective Balogh had been posing as a yearold in an online chat room when Scranton resident Jay Hastings expressed a desire to have all kinds of sexual intercourse with him he said. Their meeting at the Wyoming Valley Mall drew widespread attention because of Mr. Hastings employment as the backup Grump mascot for the former ScrantonWilkesBarre Yankees.
Police later discovered four child victims as well as child porn on Mr. Hastings computer Detective Balogh said. Mr. Hastings later pleaded guilty in the case and was sentenced to to years in prison.
That was just the start for me Detective Balogh said. Wow this is a pretty interesting line of work. That was a big case.
The Grump character was swiftly retired but Detective Balogh was just getting started.
When former district attorney Jackie Musto Carroll took office in she promoted Detective Balogh to detective and assigned him to begin investigating computer crimes a specialty that was new to the office he said.
Ms. Musto Carroll said Detective Balogh was enthusiastic and interested in investigating computer crimes and wasnt afraid to learn new things. He seemed to see an opportunity to distinguish himself as a law officer and was a great fit for the emerging field she said.
The type of work that he does can be gutwrenching Ms. Musto Carroll said. Many police officers and detectives have a hard time dealing with that and I think you need to be a special person to deal with it. . Chaz is so passionate about it but hes able to separate that from his own life.
When District Attorney Stefanie Salavantis took office in she wanted to focus on targeting abuse of children and told Detective Balogh he would essentially have free reign to do his work. They would discuss how to proceed on cases but she didnt want him held back by the clock or other constraints she said.
You want to make sure that youre getting on these cases as soon as possible. A minute or an hour can make a difference to a child thats being abused Ms. Salavantis said.
Many law officers want nothing to do with child porn cases and those who work them often get burned out quickly she said. Yet Detective Balogh has been at it for about eight years sacrificing his personal time and frequently being the last to leave the office at night she said.
Last weekend for instance Detective Balogh got three calls from local police for assistance and helped each of them he said.
One of the calls was from Nanticoke police Detective Sgt. Joseph Guydosh who needed help forensically examining cellphones of three local teens. A yearold boy had been messaging two younger girls pictures of his penis. When one called him a disgusting fat pig the teen replied now I want to expletive you.
Normally I would say boys will be boys Sgt. Guydosh said as Detective Balogh began downloading pictures and texts from the boys phone using a Cellebrite forensic extraction device he keeps in the back of his car for quick access.
No thats bull expletive. Dont even say that Detective Balogh said. Yeah kids will be kids. Then they start sending the pictures all over the school.
Detective Balogh retrieved hundreds of photos and messages from the teens phones and noted as he began reviewing them that the boy despite his aggressive comeons had gotten girls to send him pictures.
Eventually Detective Balogh found photos of the boys penis on a girls phone and corresponding images on the boys own phone.
With the evidence in hand Detective Balogh planned to write up a report Sgt. Guydosh could use to file charges against the boy. Because of a change to the law in recent years aimed at protecting minors from being charged with distributing child pornography the boy would be cited for teen sexting a summary offense.
Detective Balogh acknowledged forensics is timeconsuming and a lot of work to bring charges that essentially amount to a traffic ticket.
Despite his tough exterior the work does sometimes get to Detective Balogh. In May after he and Ms. Roberts won a guilty verdict in the countys first child porn trial Detective Balogh got visibly emotional outside the courtroom as he recalled how jurors began crying when shown images that in Ms. Roberts words will haunt you forever.
It really got to him and we talked about it for a while Ms. Salavantis said. But he doesnt let that emotion come out very often.
Recalling the case of a Kings College professor convicted last year of possessing and disseminating child porn Detective Balogh said he felt bad about disrupting what he termed a beautiful family.
I go in I turn peoples lives upside down. Theres nothing satisfying about that Detective Balogh said. Its actually heartbreaking. Its bad enough that were seeing horrific things we go and disrupt a whole family who maybe believed everything was great.
He also sounded a bit frustrated that even after he spent years working as a community service officer years spent spreading the word about how to stay safe including on the Internet the message doesnt always seem to resonate.
Cyber police are overwhelmed by the caseload the state police Northeast Computer Crime Task Force which covers counties has only four investigators and have to do as much as we can as fast as we can Detective Balogh said.
I just wish parents would listen sometimes to what Im trying to put out there. Like I got that case Monday he said referencing the YouTube video. Thats just going to drive me crazy with these two kids. Because where are mom and dad Now theyre victims. The sad part is somewhere someone is going to get sexually gratified by watching that video which is absolutely disturbing.
While that case was still pending Thursday Detective Balogh was awaiting information so he could identify the user he had solved the other child porn case that started his week. The task force arrested Benjamin William Hoffman of Fairview Twp. at work Thursday morning and charged him with possessing hundreds of child porn pictures including some of infants and toddlers being raped.
I always feel like Im doing Gods work getting these people away from our kids Detective Balogh said. At the end of the day my goal is to make sure every kids safe.
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
A joint investigation between Saskatchewans Internet Child Exploitation ICE unit and the Niagara Region ICE unit has led to the arrest of yearold Kyle Jones who is. 
Multinational computer technology company Dell on Saturday warned that cyber crime increased significantly around the world in despite organisations deploying endtoend security solutions perfectly.Cyber criminals employed a number of new tactics to better conceal exploit kits from security systems including the use of antiforensic mechanisms and URL pattern changes the company said in its Security Annual Threat Report.
Modifications in landing page entrapment techniques steganography which is concealing the file message image or video within another file message image or video and modifications in landing page entrapment techniques were also used effectively to compromise the security it added.
Cybercrime has increased significantly around the globe in and there have been repeated incidents of breaches against organisations who believed that they had carried out their endtoend security deployment perfectly. said Amit Singh country manager Dell SonicWALL.
The company emphasised on the criticality of maintaining degrees of vigilance. Many of the breaches in were successful because cybercriminals found and exploited a weak link in victims security programs due to disconnected or outdated point solutions that could not catch these anomalies in their ecosystem said Curtis Hutcheson general manager Dell Security. Dell SonicWALL noted a rise in the use of exploit kits.
While the years most active kits were Angler Nuclear Magnitude and Rig the overwhelming number of exploit kit options gave attackers a steady stream of opportunities to target the latest zeroday vulnerabilities including those appearing in Adobe Flash Adobe Reader and Microsoft Silverlight the report said.It also noted that malware attacks nearly doubled to . billion with Android ecosystem being prime target putting a large percent of smartphones at risk globally.
According to Patrick Sweeney vice president of product management and marketing Dell Security although the release of Android . Marshmallow operating system in October included a slew of new security features we can expect cyber criminals to continue finding ways to circumvent these defences.
Android users should exercise caution by only installing applications from trusted app stores like Google Play keeping their eye on the permissions being requested by apps and avoid rooting their phones he added.
A Kickstarter project turns Wimbledon tennis balls into Bluetooth speakers bit.lypUaV
Reliance Digital offers LYF G LTE smartphone months unlimited data voice calls for just Rs bit.lypIJNb
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our User Agreement and Privacy Policy.
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our Privacy Policy and User Agreement for details.
Clipping is a handy way to collect and organize the most important slides from a presentation. You can keep your great finds in clipboards organized around topics.
Washington AFP Sextortion using nude photos of someone to press for even racier content or other goods is surprisingly common a US think tank says in what it calls the first indepth study of another danger lurking in cyberspace.
Most victims are minors the predators are almost always men who prey on multiple targets and almost all adult victims are women it said. Most victims choose to stay anonymous out of shame.
And while US law enforcement officials acknowledge the problem no agency or advocacy group keeps data on it said the Brookings Institution which published the study on Wednesday.
Even the term sextortion is not a real word but rather slang that prosecutors use to refer to an offense that does not fit neatly into a single category.
Depending on where you are in America it can be prosecuted as child pornography stalking extortion or hacking. But sextortion as a crime per se does not exist the think tank said.
Sextortion can entail a hack into someones computer to rob a sexy picture or video or take over a webcam then the use of this content to extort victims for even more.
It is even more common for perpetrators to resort to social media to elicit a photograph from a victim than use it to demand more.
The Brookings Institution said it studied cases from recent years that met its definition of sextortion and many others that contained elements of it.
Those were prosecuted in states and territories of the United States and three foreign jurisdictions.
For the first time in the history of the world the global connectivity of the Internet means that you dont have to be in the same country as someone to sexually menace that person the study states.
Those cases involve at least victims. But for a variety of reasons such as prosecutors not seeking out all victims of a given predator the true number of victims from those cases could actually range from to or even more the study said.
An accompanying report from the same think tank detailed how sentencing of people convicted in sextortion cases varies wildly because some are tried in federal court and some in state court.
One man accused of victimizing at least young boys and tried in a state court got a prison sentence of a year. But another alleged to have had one victim faced trial in federal court and got years the study found.
The key to ending the disparity it added is for Congress to pass a federal sextortion law incorporating elements present in federal sexual abuse extortion child pornography and abusive sexual contact statutes.
The first report on the offense itself also provided harrowing details of actual sextortion cases.
One involved a woman who opened an email from an unknown sender and found sexually explicit photos of herself data about her job husband and three kids and a demand for a porno video of her.
And if she did not send it within one day he threatened to publish the images already in his possession and let her family know about her dark side the study said.
Multinational computer technology company Dell on Saturday warned that cyber crime increased significantly around the world in despite organisations deploying endtoend security solutions perfectly.Cyber criminals employed a number of new tactics to better conceal exploit kits from security systems including the use of antiforensic mechanisms and URL pattern changes the company said in its Security Annual Threat Report.
Modifications in landing page entrapment techniques steganography which is concealing the file message image or video within another file message image or video and modifications in landing page entrapment techniques were also used effectively to compromise the security it added.
Cybercrime has increased significantly around the globe in and there have been repeated incidents of breaches against organisations who believed that they had carried out their endtoend security deployment perfectly. said Amit Singh country manager Dell SonicWALL.
The company emphasised on the criticality of maintaining degrees of vigilance. Many of the breaches in were successful because cybercriminals found and exploited a weak link in victims security programs due to disconnected or outdated point solutions that could not catch these anomalies in their ecosystem said Curtis Hutcheson general manager Dell Security. Dell SonicWALL noted a rise in the use of exploit kits.
While the years most active kits were Angler Nuclear Magnitude and Rig the overwhelming number of exploit kit options gave attackers a steady stream of opportunities to target the latest zeroday vulnerabilities including those appearing in Adobe Flash Adobe Reader and Microsoft Silverlight the report said.It also noted that malware attacks nearly doubled to . billion with Android ecosystem being prime target putting a large percent of smartphones at risk globally.
According to Patrick Sweeney vice president of product management and marketing Dell Security although the release of Android . Marshmallow operating system in October included a slew of new security features we can expect cyber criminals to continue finding ways to circumvent these defences.
Android users should exercise caution by only installing applications from trusted app stores like Google Play keeping their eye on the permissions being requested by apps and avoid rooting their phones he added.
A Kickstarter project turns Wimbledon tennis balls into Bluetooth speakers bit.lypUaV
Reliance Digital offers LYF G LTE smartphone months unlimited data voice calls for just Rs bit.lypIJNb
On the first floor of a building in Noidas Sector a team of sits behind workstations. While some examine a black suitcase hooked to wires others look at a screen attached to a smaller device.
With four cubicles devoted to email tracking data acquisition and recovery social media investigation and mobile phone surveillance this is the Centre for Cyber Crime Investigation CCCI Uttar Pradeshs first cyber crime centre which will be inaugurated Monday. With around cases of cyber crime reported in Noida in this cell has been equipped with stateoftheart tools to tackle cases related to financial fraud data theft social media crimes among others.
In cases of cyber crimes techniques used for preventing solving and analysing traditional crimes are not of much help. The manner in which these crimes take place and the material recovered in such cases are different from regular crimes. Most of this material is in digital form and one needs specific hardware and software for analysing it said Dinesh Yadav SP City Noida.
Yadav will lead a team of members at CCCI. Elaborating on the social media investigation section Yadav said his team will look at crimes related to platforms like Facebook and Twitter.
A huge portion of cyber crimes committed on social media target women. Several times such complaints are not filed with police. We do not reveal the identity of the complainant and using advanced software tools we will tackle cases he said.
Pointing to a disk imaging tool at the Data Acquisition and Recovery Section Yadav said the equipment will help police create images of the hard disk before its data is examined forensically a crucial step in using digital evidence in courts.
The data acquisition and recovery section is the most crucial where all forensic tools are used. A separate forensic tool for mobile phones has also been procured. A lot of financial fraud cases come to us where a persons email account is misused. We are equipped to track the origin of such emails Yadav added.
Last year on September a resident of Gautam Budh Nagar received a phone call informing him that he had been shortlisted for a contest. The caller claiming to be from a web portal asked the man to register for the next level of the contest online. While directing him through the registration process the caller was able to obtain his bank account details and duped him of nearly Rs lakh.
This was one of around cases of financial fraud which came to Gautam Budh Nagar police in . With the Centre for Cyber Crime Investigation CCCI being inaugurated Monday police said they would be better equipped to handle such cases.
Last year money looted through cyber crime frauds amounted to Rs crore. Of this we managed recover Rs lakh and seal fake call centres. With the help of advanced tools we will be able to solve cases faster said Dinesh Yadav SP City Noida.
This cell has been equipped with stateoftheart tools to tackle cases related to financial fraud data theft social media crimes among others
On the first floor of a building in Noidas Sector a team of sits behind workstations. While some examine a black suitcase hooked to wires others look at a screen attached to a smaller device.With four cubicles devoted to email tracking data acquisition and recovery social media investigation and mobile phone surveillance this is the Centre for Cyber Crime Investigation CCCI Uttar Pradeshs first cyber crime centre has been inaugurated.
With around cases of cyber crime reported in Noida in this cell has been equipped with stateoftheart tools to tackle cases related to financial fraud data theft social media crimes among others.In cases of cyber crimes techniques used for preventing solving and analysing traditional crimes are not of much help. The manner in which these crimes take place and the material recovered in such cases are different from regular crimes. Most of this material is in digital form and one needs specific hardware and software for analysing it said Dinesh Yadav SP City Noida.
Yadav will lead a team of members at CCCI. Elaborating on the social media investigation section Yadav said his team will look at crimes related to platforms like Facebook and Twitter. A huge portion of cyber crimes committed on social media target women. Several times such complaints are not filed with police. We do not reveal the identity of the complainant and using advanced software tools we will tackle cases he said. Pointing to a disk imaging tool at the Data Acquisition and Recovery Section Yadav said the equipment will help police create images of the hard disk before its data is examined forensically a crucial step in using digital evidence in courts. The data acquisition and recovery section is the most crucial where all forensic tools are used A separate forensic tool for mobile phones has also been procured. A lot of financial fraud cases come to us where a persons email account is misused. We are equipped to track the origin of such emails Yadav added.
Last year on September a resident of Gautam Budh Nagar received a phone call informing him that he had been shortlisted for a contest. The caller claiming to be from a web portal asked the man to register for the next level of the contest online. While directing him through the registration process the caller was able to obtain his bank account details and duped him of nearly Rs lakh. This was one of around cases of financial fraud which came to Gautam Budh Nagar police in . With the Centre for Cyber Crime Investigation CCCI being inaugurated Monday police said they would be better equipped to handle such cases. Last year money looted through cyber crime frauds amounted to Rs crore. Of this we managed recover Rs lakh and seal fake call centres. With the help of advanced tools we will be able to solve cases faster said Dinesh Yadav SP City Noida.
How Trai is fixing service quality benchmark for mobile data extends validity of datacoupons
Cyber Law Times brings to you cyber law news forums newsletter updates from all around the world
Sanjay Sharma a New Delhi based shopkeepers act of clicking on a malware on his Facebook Timeline link landed him in deep trouble as the link spread on the Facebook walls of other friends including the complainant woman. The womans family registered a Police Complaint under Information Technology Act as the link contained adult video. 
The proposed amendments to cyber laws will address issues like child pornography and content that sabotage the nations economy. Communications and Multimedia Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Shabery Cheek said recent incidents had highlighted the need for some form of control of information on the internet. He said this in reply to a question by Senator 
A New York private investigator who hacked the emails of dozens of people he was investigating got jail time but a judge stopped short of helping to expose the clients that hired him to do their dirty work. Manhattan federal judge Richard Sullivan sentenced Eric Saldarriaga to three months in jail for pilfering some 
British authorities arrested a UK teen Friday morning in the string of bomb threat hoaxes against West Michigan schools. The arrest was the result of a joint investigation between a British organized crime unit and the FBI. But computer forensics analysts with the Ottawa County Sheriffs Department also played a big role. Investigators say the 
The proposed amendments to cyber laws will address issues like child pornography and content that sabotage the nations economy. Communications and Multimedia Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Shabery Cheek said recent incidents had highlighted the need for some form of control of information on the internet. He said this in reply to a question by Senator 
British authorities arrested a UK teen Friday morning in the string of bomb threat hoaxes against West Michigan schools. The arrest was the result of a joint investigation between a British organized crime unit and the FBI. But computer forensics analysts with the Ottawa County Sheriffs Department also played a big role. Investigators say the 
ICANN announces the implementation of amended rules for the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy UDRP. These amendments to the UDRP rules are designed to reduce the risk of cyberflight during a UDRP proceeding. That is to make sure that Domain Name is locked in no time and the Respondent does not attempt to transfer 
DOMAINX is the st dedicated International Domain Name Conference was a great success with over people from diverse domains attended the event. Mr. Vinit Goenka Convener National BJP IT Cell presided over the event as the chief guest. DOMAINX not only educated the participants about the thriving global domain name industry and its 
British authorities arrested a UK teen Friday morning in the string of bomb threat hoaxes against West Michigan schools. The arrest was the result of a joint investigation between a British organized crime unit and the FBI. But computer forensics analysts with the Ottawa County Sheriffs Department also played a big role. Investigators say the 
A New York private investigator who hacked the emails of dozens of people he was investigating got jail time but a judge stopped short of helping to expose the clients that hired him to do their dirty work. Manhattan federal judge Richard Sullivan sentenced Eric Saldarriaga to three months in jail for pilfering some 
The number of children involved in pornography and cybercrime cases has increased rapidly over the years a report from the Indonesian Child Protection Commission KPAI states. The report recorded cases in an increase from cases in and cases in with most cases relating to online pornography. The rise of 
A New York private investigator who hacked the emails of dozens of people he was investigating got jail time but a judge stopped short of helping to expose the clients that hired him to do their dirty work. Manhattan federal judge Richard Sullivan sentenced Eric Saldarriaga to three months in jail for pilfering some 
Multi Screen Media Private Limited formerly SONY approached Delhi High Court in the month of June restraining file sharing website from infringing their FIFA rights. SONY submitted that they have exclusive Broadcasting rights for India and neighboring countries that includes Bangladesh Bhutan India Maldives Nepal Pakistan and Srilanka and the FIFA world cup matches 
Mumbai High Court passes an John Doe order against the piracy of Viacom Motion Pictures film Gangs of Wasseypur releasing June . This is first of the kind order by Mumbai High Court as previously such matters have been taken up by Delhi High Court only on numerous occasions. Such an order will 
Copyright CyberLawTimes.com All Rights Reserved Powered by Legal Solutions 
Last year officers logged alleged offences involving the vastly popular social networking site.
Facebook was referenced in investigations of murder rape child sex offences assault kidnap death threats witness intimidation and fraud.
The vast majority of cases involved alleged harassment or intimidation by cyberbullies according to figures obtained under a Freedom of Information request.
Around half of police forces in England and Wales supplied details for when Facebook was recorded in crime reports.
In some cases arguments conducted on the site led to real world violence while in others paedophiles used it in an attempt to groom children.
Examples include a woman witness in a rape case in Cleveland who was contacted by the suspect and later attacked for giving evidence against him.
Ashleigh Hall was groomed by Peter Chapman via Facebook after her claimed to be a teenager
Teenager Ashleigh Hall was murdered by serial rapist Peter Chapman after he groomed her on Facebook.
Chapman posed as a handsome teenager called Peter Cartwright to lure yearold trainee nurse Ashleigh into his trap in September .
He sent her a series of text messages and arranged to meet some weeks later claiming to be Peters dad to explain why he looked nothing like his photo. 
Chapman drove Ashleigh to a secluded area called Thorpe Larches near Sedgefield in County Durham.
Once there he forced her to perform a sex act before binding and gagging her with duct tape wrapping so much around her head that she suffocated to death.
In March Chapman was sentenced to a minimum of years in jail for Ashleighs kidnap rape and murder.
In Greater Manchester parents called police after a paedophile induced their yearold son to send indecent pictures of himself. 
In Staffordshire a school bus driver used Facebook to attempt to groom a yearold boy.
And in another case a jilted boyfriend posted a naked picture of his former girlfriend who was on the site.
People say its a social networking site but it causes more harm than good. Its far too easy for paedophiles to put a photograph of themselves up on the site and meet young people. Facebook should be closed down.
Just like a knife or a car there is nothing intrinsically dangerous or criminal about Facebook but just like both of those things it needs to be treated with respect because of the dangers that can be associated with its use.
However it has to be accepted that Facebook has made the commissioning of some crimes such as sexual grooming much easier than they were in the past and we need to be aware of that.
Hundreds of criminals are using Mark Zuckerbergs social networking site to lure children
Earlier this year the Daily Mail revealed hundreds of criminals have been using the site to taunt their victims from behind bars.
Prison authorities found inmates posting on Facebook in the past two years using banned mobile phones smuggled into jails. Some continued to run their criminal empires from behind bars using the site.
A Facebook spokesman said it worked with police to bring serious offenders on the site to justice.
Just like mobile phones and TVs Facebook is part of our everyday lives he added.
Facebooks community standards supported by reporting tools on almost every page of the site mean such conduct is swiftly dealt with.
Facebook users act as the worlds largest neighbourhood watch and are very active in keeping the site safe. 
When matters of serious criminality are found on Facebook then we work with law enforcement to bring those responsible to justice.
Facebook launched on the New York stock market last month making many of its staff instant millionaires.
But the value of the shares has plummeted since then falling almost per cent in just over a fortnight.
As a result founder Mark Zuckerberg has seen .billion wiped off his personal fortune taking it to a still extremely healthy .billion.
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
Crime figures include cyber crime for the first time Overall number of crimes in England and Wales soars by Separate data shows surge in violent offences Gove needs to be tough on crime and tough on the causes Cyber criminals drain m from UK bank accounts Hate crime rises by fifth official figures show Britains stance on cyber crime is like driving a car without airbags Police officers routinely fiddle crime figures MPs are told 
Todays crime figures have shone a new light on the true scale of crime in England and Wales. 
Put together the two measures show a per cent increase on last year when cyber crime and fraud were not included in the estimate. 
In recorded crime violence against the person and sexual offences are also up. 
The first estimates of the scale of fraud and cyber offences show how the internet is changing the nature of crime in the UK a senior police officer said. 
Jeff Farrar National Police Chiefs Council lead for crime recording and statistics said officers were working hard to tackle the threat but warned it presents a growing challenge. 
Cyber crime exemplifies how the demands on the police service are both changing and increasing at a time when budgets continue to be placed under significant pressure. 
Mr Farrar said it was encouraging that the overall rate from the Crime Survey of England and Wales shows incidents are decreasing and that the gap between the study and police recording of offences continues to narrow 
Victims now have increased confidence in reporting sexual offences. We have also introduced new solutions that make it easier to report fraud offences through Action Fraud. 
Steve White chairman of The Police Federation of England and Wales warned total crime will continue to increase without longterm commitment to sustainable police budgets. 
Possession of a knife or bladed instrument is up per cent and this is particularly worrying as it reverses the trend of recent years. 
Every violent or sexual offence has its victim often traumatised with each grieving person far more than a statistic but without longterm commitment to sustainable police budgets total crime will simply go on rising. 
The public deserve better and we are asking for the resources we need to provide the service they deserve. Until that happens we can expect to see more gloomy figures like these. 
On average one in adults is a victim of fraud and one in is a victim of cyber fraud the figures show. 
The survey also revealed the number of sexual offences including rape reported to the police rose by per cent from last year and is at the highest level since comparable records began in . 
There was a per cent rise in violence against the person reported to the police including in the most serious categories resulting in injury. 
Violence against the person is an area where the police have seen the biggest increase in offences. 
While the number of murders has fallen over the twentyfirst century violencerelated crime has increased with the last year seeing a per cent increase in violence with injury and a per cent increase in violence without injury. 
This chart put together by Ashley Kirk shows how violence against the person has spiked in recent years. 
The figures presented today are complex and confusing but a true picture of the scale of crime in the UK for so long obscured by crime stats is now beginning to emerge. 
The figures out today go some way to showing the true extent of crime in England and Wales for the first time. 
Following years of criticism due to cyber crime and other fraud being missed out of official data the Office for National Statistics has carried out new research showing the total number of crimes is double what was previously thought. 
There were . million estimated cyber crimes and frauds last year it said plus . million offences under the Computer Misuse Act hacking identity theft malware and so on. 
Add these to the . million crimes recorded in the year to the end of June by the longrunning Crime Survey of England and Wales CSEW and you get a whacking . million total. 
Comparing that with the previous CSEW total of . million and you get a per cent increase. 
Of course these crimes existed previously but they just werent monitored by the government. 
Technically its not a rise its a revelation showing us the true picture that for so long has been obscured omitted and ignored. 
The picture is made even more murky by a separate set of data based on how many crimes are actually recorded by the police. 
After accusation that police have been fiddling the figures officers are now far more likely to be told to note down all crimes more accurately. 
There were . million offences recorded in England and Wales a per cent increase overall. 
It was driven by a per cent rise in violent crime or an extra offences including a per cent increase in the most serious ones which actually involved an injury. 
Sex crimes too saw another big surge in recorded data up per cent to . 
The jump in sexual offences is part of a trend over the last few years driven by the socalled Savile effect after the impact of the scandal surrounding the BBC entertainer Jimmy Savile who was exposed as a prolific paedophile after his death. 
The effect of the case has been to encourage victims the police are more likely to take them seriously and properly investigate leading to increased reporting of sex crimes. 
Meanwhile separate research by Victim Support has indicated that one in three fraud victims is at least years old. 
The charity received referrals from police following such crimes in the year to September. 
More than one in three of the victims was or over despite this age group making up only per cent of the UK population while per cent were at least . 
The Minister for Policing Crime Criminal Justice Victims Mike Penning has now made a statement following the latest crime stats. 
Police reform is working and crime has fallen by per cent yearonyear according to the independent Crime Survey for England and Wales and by more than a quarter since . People communities and property across the country are safer as a result. 
Crime is falling and it is also changing and we are committed to tackling fraud and cyber crime. This is not a new threat and the Government has been working to get ahead of the game. 
Since we have created the National Crime Agency invested million in the National Cyber Security Programme and established Action Fraud to support police by identifying the links between complex scams. 
We need to go further. And we will. We are working in partnership with industry and consumers to ensure crime continues to decrease. The number of people experiencing computer viruses has fallen in recent years and plastic card fraud is down by more than a quarter since largely as the result of the introduction of Chip and PIN. 
Having an accurate national picture is critical to informing our ongoing response. Todays figures represent worldleading work by the ONS supported by the Home Office to reveal something we have always known but were previously unable to quantify. 
We also continue to see a rise in police recording of violent and sexual crimes. The Office for National Statistics has been clear that this rise reflects improvements in recording practice rather than an increase in itself and this is something we welcome. 
Tackling these horrific crimes is a priority and we have introduced new laws that mean anyone caught in possession of a knife for a second time will now face a mandatory minimum sentence in prison. 
More from David Barrett on this in a moment but the new headline figure is that crime has risen a staggering per cent if you include all the figures presented today. Crime in England and Wales has more than doubled it appears. 
More than half of fraud and cyber crime victims suffered financial loss the survey found. 
Of that number per cent received financial compensation and per cent were fully reimbursed. 
The most common cyber crimes offences committed under the Computer Misuse Act were where the victims device was infected by a virus. 
The CSEW published quarterly by the Office for National Statistics reflects experience of crime and is separate from policerecorded crime figures which only show how many offences were reported. 
Recorded crime shows that of victimbased crimes selected below the biggest increases have been sexual offences and violence against the person. 
Between June and June there has been a per cent increase in sexual offences and a per cent increase in violence against the person. 
Theft from the person and robbery had the biggest decreases this year falling per cent and per cent respectively. 
According to the ONS the estimates for fraud and cyber crime are significantly higher than those suggested by the police recorded figures. 
There are a number of reasons why the CSEW estimate is so much higher than the figures recorded by the police the survey stated. 
The profile of cases covered by the CSEW cover the full spectrum of harm or loss. 
Reporting rates are likely to be lower in cases where there is low or no harm but merely inconvenience to the victim. 
The latest police figures show just under fraud offences were reported to the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau NFIB a rise of per cent compared with the previous year. 
While the figures released today may appear high I am certain that cyber crime remains one of the most under reported areas in our crime statistics. There is little clarity around the impact of cyber crime against the UK economy and of course the statistics released today only consider crimes against the person rather than corporate crime. 
Getting a better view of cyber crime matters to individuals corporations and the government. It also drives home the point that we all need to consider our security online and take sensible precautions to protect ourselves. 
Our world is becoming digital and so is organised crime. The incorporation of these figures into the Crime Survey of England and Wales is a vital first step towards a more robust reporting regime for cyber crime and an important recognition that such crimes can have every bit as much of an impact on our lives as more conventional crime. 
If the computer offences were included in the new headline figures it would mean crime had more than doubled to . million offences. 
Overall violence against the person recorded by police rose by a quarter to incidents the data showed. 
Possession of a knife or sharp instrument rose by nine per cent to incidents. 
Sex crimes recorded by police showed a per cent jump an extra offences continuing a trend seen over several years reflecting increasing willingness among victims to come forward to police. 
In the year to the end of June police recorded murders a rise of on the previous year. 
The figures also follow a warning from the National Crime Agency yesterday that millions of pounds have been drained from British bank accounts after cyber criminals unleashed a particularly virulent virus. 
The NCA is working alongside Europol and the FBI among other agencies to track down an eastern European gang believed to the responsible. 
Meanwhile the number of sexual offences recorded by police in England and Wales have increased by per cent in the past year. 
This is the equivalent of an additional offences in the months to June and comes as the number of rapes and other sexual offences reached its highest level since . 
While some talk of obscure crime figures its important to remember that these are real people businesses damaged and hurt by offenders
The Crime Survey of England and Wales which is based on interviews with members of the public about their experiences of crime found overall crime has fallen by per cent from last year with an estimated . million offences. 
Separate police recorded crime figures which are compiled in a different way showed an increased of per cent with . million incidents. 
Todays startling figures follow a controversial report out yesterday that said victims of cyber crime should be low priority if they fail to take security steps. 
The study commissioned by the City of London Police and the City of London Corporation which runs the Square Mile suggested officers should approach electronic crimes with realism and warn victims the cases would never be properly investigated. 
The annual number of crimes in England and Wales has soared by per cent after more than five million cyber crimes and frauds were included in the total for the first time. 
New research by the Office for National Statistics ONS found there were . million electronic crimes in the year to the end of June which have never previously been measured in official government statistics. 
Nearly four million people were affected of whom . million suffered financial loss as a result. 
It means the overall number of crimes has risen sharply to . nmillion including . million from the Crime Survey of England and Wales in the year to the end of June. 
Among crimes recorded by police there was a sharp rise in violent assaults which led to injuries with more crimes a per cent increase. 
Overall police recorded crime rose by five per cent yearonyear to . million offences. 
The ONS research on cyber crime has been published for the first time following widespread criticism that large chunks of crime such as identity theft computer hacking card fraud and phishing were absent from official totals. 
Victims of cyber crime should be low priority if they fail to take security steps says report 
Another new piece of research from the ONS showed there were a further . million offences under the Computer Misuse Act mainly attempts to access confidential information. 
But Mr Flatley said he had an open mind about whether these would be included in the overall crime totals in the future. 
Good morning and welcome to our live coverage of the release and reaction to the latest crime Office for National Statistics crime figures. 
Our man David Barrett is there poised and ready to crunch the numbers as soon as they are released and then here we will bring you all the reaction that follows. 
It is expected crime levels will soar as cyber crime is included for the first time. 
An yearold man has been charged relation to incidents of computer intrusion and damage to network profiles
A fifth person has been bailed in connection with an investigation into alleged data theft
A fifth person has been arrested in connection with the investigation into alleged data theft from TalkTalk.
A yearold boy arrested in connection with the TalkTalk investigation has been bailed.
A fourth person arrested in connection with the investigation into alleged data theft from TalkTalk.
A yearold boy arrested under Computer Misuse Act has been bailed.
The Metropolitan Police Service welcomes new legislation to help stamp out ID fraud which comes into force today. 
Police in west London have brought the elderly and young together in the fight against cyber crime. Officers in Hillingdon have launched a series of unique new learning events to encourage internet safety to elderly and vulnerable communities with help from young people across the borough.
You havent entered a correct link to your helper.html file for your Hosted Newsroom. Go to Publish and complete the steps.
Explore the latest and greatest creative work from around the globe.
Providing great companies with the recognition they deserve.
Take a fresh approach to raising your profile with potential clients.
Search jobs in marketing advertising creative and media.
The Drum app brings you some of the worlds best marketing and media news analysis and creative insights. Already the UK and Europes number one marketing platform we are also now covering the USA and Asia.
Delivered every fortnight The Drum Magazine distils the babble of marketing industry commentary and news into a single intelligible and intelligent package. And because of its size it has the space to showcase creative at its best.
A new Cyber Crime Reduction Partnership has been created to tackle the growing threat of cyber criminals
In a speech at BCS the Chartered Institute for IT Security Minister James Brokenshire announced the creation of a new Cyber Crime Reduction Partnership to tackle the growing threat of organised and global cyber criminals.
The Home Office is bringing together police industry experts and academics in the new Cyber Crime Reduction Partnership jointly led by James Brokenshire and Minister for Universities and Science David Willetts to ensure police and other law enforcement agencies can stay one step ahead of online criminals.
For too long the publics perception of cyber crime has been a lone bedroom hacker stealing money from a bank account. But the reality is that cyber criminals are organised and global with a new breed of criminals selling offtheshelf software to aid gangs in exploiting the public.
This government is committed to tackling this threat and we have already had great success. But we want to go further and through the creation of the National Cyber Crime Unit within the NCA and innovations such as the new Cyber Crime Reduction Partnership I am confident we can bring these criminals to justice.
Law enforcement agencies have had a number of significant successes to date. In its first year the Police Central eCrime unit part of the Cyber Security Strategy has prevented an estimated million of harm being caused.
It is important that members of the public or businesses report cyber crimes to Action Fraud the UKs national reporting centre. Simple steps such as setting strong passwords and using uptodate virus software can reduce the risk of becoming a victim.
Dont include personal or financial information eg your National Insurance number or credit card details.
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v. except where otherwise stated
Jun Survey shows that airlines plan to invest in cybersecurity programmes over next three years.
Jun According to a report produced by the network and security application specialist the average company suffers of DDoS attacks a year
Jun According the study conducted by the global cybersecurity firm many people risk sharing personal data through online communication channels.
Jun The majority of digital businesses will be hampered by the inability of their respective IT security teams to manage risk.
May A Finnish boy receives payout from Facebook after finding a bug that deleted comments 
Apr MoU testimony commitments both parties to safeguarding consumer rights in ecommerce
Mar Akamai Bot Manager enables organisations better management over bot detection 
Feb US intelligence director James Clapper reveals smart connected devices in the home can monitor owners
Jan Sophos reveals potential cybersecurity predictions which will shakeup the industry 
Jan The UAE is mulling tougher penalties for those that forge IP addresses with criminal intent
ITP.net is the Gulfs longestrunning technology news site touching on national regional and global events relevant to CIOs and techsavvy consumers.
The acting cyber czar for the Obama administration has resigned. Melissa Hathaway said she was leaving the post for personal reasons. President Barack Obama outlined his cyber security plans in May announcing in a speech that he intended to create a White House cyber security post a position that he has not filled yet.
Twentyeightyearold Albert Gonzalez of Miami Florida has been indicted for what is being called the largest hacking and identitytheft caper in U.S. history. On August federal prosecutors alleged that Gonzalez and two Russian accomplices masterminded a global cybercrime scheme to steal data from more than million credit and debit cards by hacking into the computer systems of five major companies which included Hannaford Bros. supermarkets Eleven and Heartland Payment Systems Inc. a creditcard processing company.
Gonzalez wasnt charged in an earlier cybercrime case since he became an informant to the U.S. Secret Service. But the brazen Gonzalez then returned to commit the largerscale crimes he is now charged with. He faces up to years in prison and in fines
In a presentation at BlackHat USA Dmitri Alperovitch a McAfee Internet threat researcher said that Russias history of organized crime has helped nurture the birth of sophisticated cyber crime organizations that have lead the way in the emergence of Internet worms botnets spamming phishing and credit card forums.
The ease of doing business as Alperovitch puts it has facilitated a reported incidents in translating to about million lost in the U.S.
Russian cyber crime has its roots in software piracy. But cyber crime took off following a Citibank hack linked to St. Petersburg Russia that allowed the attackers to access more than million via the telephone system.
The U.S. government is busting cyber criminals under the name Bot Roast. It refers to botnets which are a group of software robots that are used to do things like commit identity theft and install malicious software that logs users keystrokes to later steal personal information.
The Bot Roast program has caught cyber criminals responsible for more than million in economic losses to computer users. The FBI has caught eight people who have either been indicted pled guilty or sentenced for botnetrelated crimes. There have also been search warrantsserved in the U.S. and by overseas lawenforcement partners in connection with the Bot Roast operation.
Federal authorities in New Haven Connecticut and Los Angeles California have charged dozens of people with running an international computer crime ring responsible for stealing personal financial information from thousands of computer users and hundreds of their financial institutions.
The Justice Department announce the major cyber crime bust May . The culprits were mostly from Romania but also included people from the United States Canada Portugal and Pakistan.
Seven citizens of Romania were named in the New Haven indictment after they allegedly targeted customers of a Bridgeportbased Peoples Bank and other institutions.
Houston Texas resident Jodie Hoang has been charged with computer fraud. The charges were announced by U. S. Attorney Jim Letten which allege that Hoang an accounting clerk at Standard Mortgage Corporation in New Orleans Louisiana used the companys computer system to changed the deposit code for payments made by customers at mortgage closings. She then created checks payable to herself or her credit card providers.
If convicted Hoang faces up to five years in prison a fine and be placed on a term of supervised release after imprisonment for a period of up to three years. She could also be ordered to pay restitution to Standard Mortgage Corporation.
Lesmany Nunez was sentenced on July to months and one day imprisonment after pleading guilty to computer fraud. Nunez was also ordered to serve three years of supervised release with a special condition that he perform hours of community service by lecturing young people on the implications of hacking into other peoples computers and networks. Nunez was also ordered to pay in restitution.
Nunez was a former computer support technician at Quantum Technology Partners QTP located in MiamiDade County Florida. According to the proceedings Nunez accessed QTPs network remotely without authorization using an administrator account and password.
As a result of the unauthorized access to the system and the deletion of data QTP suffered over in damages
Last month David Patton of Centreville Virginia pleaded guilty in federal court for his role in creating and marketing software designed and used to send bulk commercial spam emails in violation of the CANSPAM Act.
Patton admitted that he designed the program to enable its users to insert false headers on spam emails it sent a violation of the CANSPAM Act. Patton faces up to six years in prison.
Increase brought about by inclusion of new offences masks fall in underlying rate in survey of peoples experience of crime
The crime rate for England and Wales has doubled to more than .m offences according to the latest figures.
The sharp rise in the headline figures is due to the inclusion of an estimated .m online fraud incidents and .m cybercrime offences for the first time.
The crime survey for England and Wales which is based on peoples experience of crime shows that the underlying crime rate excluding cybercrime continued to fall by to an estimated .m offences in the months to June. 
Separate policerecorded figures show a increase in crime including a increase in violence against the person. Sexual offences including rape rose by over the past year which police say is indicative of a greater willingness of victims to report such crimes.
The growth in sexual offences recorded by the police includes an increase of in reported rapes and a rise in reports of other sexual offences. 
Statisticians said it reflects a change in police attitudes in the past months with officers now talking about reports of rape and no longer referring to allegations of rape. But they also point to crime survey evidence that shows the proportion of adults who report being a victim of sexual assault remains under .
The Office for National Statistics ONS said the publication of an official estimate of fraud and cybercrime alongside the crime survey of England and Wales follows growing concern that the rise in cybercrime makes up for the longterm fall in crime from a peak of m offences in to .m offences by June.
The first estimate shows that there were up to .m incidents of online fraud involving . million victims in the past months. Just over half involved some initial financial loss to the victims and more than were compensated in full.
The addition of the online fraud offences to the crime survey figure of .m offences leads to a headline figure of .m estimated criminal incidents compared with the m estimate for the year to June .
An ONS field trial also estimated that there were .m computer misuse incidents where a victims computer is infected by a virus. 
The statisticians said they had an open mind on whether to include these within the headline crime rate as often such attacks are blocked by antivirus protection and not experienced as a crime by the victim. But they do say that phishing and other attacks are offences under the Computer Misuse Act and could be included.
The inclusion of these .m cybercrime incidents brings the headline total in the official estimates to .m double the m estimated crimes in the year to June .
The detailed figures for online fraud show of victims lost less than lost less than and a further lost less than . One per cent lost more than .
Furthermore these new estimates should be seen in the context of a reduction over the past years in the more traditional forms of crime from m incidents a year in to under m a year today.
The Home Office disputed whether the new estimates for online fraud and cybercrime should be added to the headline figure to create a new total arguing that they were derived from trial data from a smaller sample and should be treated as first estimates rather than official statistics.
We need to go further. And we will. We are working in partnership with industry and consumers to ensure crime continues to decrease. The number of people experiencing computer viruses has fallen in recent years and plastic card fraud is down by more than a quarter since largely as the result of the introduction of chip and pin.
Having an accurate national picture is critical to informing our ongoing response. Todays figures represent worldleading work by the ONS supported by the Home Office to reveal something we have always known but were previously unable to quantify.
An yearold man has been charged relation to incidents of computer intrusion and damage to network profiles
A fifth person has been bailed in connection with an investigation into alleged data theft
A fifth person has been arrested in connection with the investigation into alleged data theft from TalkTalk.
A yearold boy arrested in connection with the TalkTalk investigation has been bailed.
A fourth person arrested in connection with the investigation into alleged data theft from TalkTalk.
A yearold boy arrested under Computer Misuse Act has been bailed.
The Metropolitan Police Service welcomes new legislation to help stamp out ID fraud which comes into force today. 
Police in west London have brought the elderly and young together in the fight against cyber crime. Officers in Hillingdon have launched a series of unique new learning events to encourage internet safety to elderly and vulnerable communities with help from young people across the borough.
You havent entered a correct link to your helper.html file for your Hosted Newsroom. Go to Publish and complete the steps.
Explore the latest and greatest creative work from around the globe.
Providing great companies with the recognition they deserve.
Take a fresh approach to raising your profile with potential clients.
Search jobs in marketing advertising creative and media.
The Drum app brings you some of the worlds best marketing and media news analysis and creative insights. Already the UK and Europes number one marketing platform we are also now covering the USA and Asia.
Delivered every fortnight The Drum Magazine distils the babble of marketing industry commentary and news into a single intelligible and intelligent package. And because of its size it has the space to showcase creative at its best.
Sign up now to get free exclusive access to reports research and invitation only events.
Symantec has announced its ambition for all websites to be protected by SSL encryption within two years. The cybersecurity giants Encryption Everywhere drive will encrypt per cent of all sites by .
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commissions ACCC Targeting Scams Report found in total more than million was lost to scams in .
IT security firm BAE Systems has profiled six types of cybercriminals that it says represent the biggest threats to Australian organisations in the lead up to the governments cyber security review.
Global Internet advertising revenues will approach US billion by the year making it a lucrative business but also attractive to cyber criminals according to Cisco. 
Most malware is mundane but these innovative techniques are exploiting systems and networks of even the savviest users
Most malware is mundane but these innovative techniques are exploiting systems and networks of even the savviest users
Security pros and government officials warn of a possible cyber involving banks utilities other companies or the Internet
If you travel to China or Russia assume government or industry spooks will steal your data and install spyware. Heres how to thwart them
WiFi may be the networking method of choice among apartment blocks cropping up in increased numbers in Australias major cities however increased reliance on wireless internet is resulting in more security risks according to Layer Consulting.
Organised criminals are using new tactics to put a new face on old crimes and with overwhelming success. Better analysis of network data is emerging as a powerful defence helping Australian companies to harness the power of analytics to detect breaches early and minimize their exposure.
Copyright IDG Communications. ABN . All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited.
Last year officers logged alleged offences involving the vastly popular social networking site.
Facebook was referenced in investigations of murder rape child sex offences assault kidnap death threats witness intimidation and fraud.
The vast majority of cases involved alleged harassment or intimidation by cyberbullies according to figures obtained under a Freedom of Information request.
Around half of police forces in England and Wales supplied details for when Facebook was recorded in crime reports.
In some cases arguments conducted on the site led to real world violence while in others paedophiles used it in an attempt to groom children.
Examples include a woman witness in a rape case in Cleveland who was contacted by the suspect and later attacked for giving evidence against him.
Ashleigh Hall was groomed by Peter Chapman via Facebook after her claimed to be a teenager
Teenager Ashleigh Hall was murdered by serial rapist Peter Chapman after he groomed her on Facebook.
Chapman posed as a handsome teenager called Peter Cartwright to lure yearold trainee nurse Ashleigh into his trap in September .
He sent her a series of text messages and arranged to meet some weeks later claiming to be Peters dad to explain why he looked nothing like his photo. 
Chapman drove Ashleigh to a secluded area called Thorpe Larches near Sedgefield in County Durham.
Once there he forced her to perform a sex act before binding and gagging her with duct tape wrapping so much around her head that she suffocated to death.
In March Chapman was sentenced to a minimum of years in jail for Ashleighs kidnap rape and murder.
In Greater Manchester parents called police after a paedophile induced their yearold son to send indecent pictures of himself. 
In Staffordshire a school bus driver used Facebook to attempt to groom a yearold boy.
And in another case a jilted boyfriend posted a naked picture of his former girlfriend who was on the site.
People say its a social networking site but it causes more harm than good. Its far too easy for paedophiles to put a photograph of themselves up on the site and meet young people. Facebook should be closed down.
Just like a knife or a car there is nothing intrinsically dangerous or criminal about Facebook but just like both of those things it needs to be treated with respect because of the dangers that can be associated with its use.
However it has to be accepted that Facebook has made the commissioning of some crimes such as sexual grooming much easier than they were in the past and we need to be aware of that.
Hundreds of criminals are using Mark Zuckerbergs social networking site to lure children
Earlier this year the Daily Mail revealed hundreds of criminals have been using the site to taunt their victims from behind bars.
Prison authorities found inmates posting on Facebook in the past two years using banned mobile phones smuggled into jails. Some continued to run their criminal empires from behind bars using the site.
A Facebook spokesman said it worked with police to bring serious offenders on the site to justice.
Just like mobile phones and TVs Facebook is part of our everyday lives he added.
Facebooks community standards supported by reporting tools on almost every page of the site mean such conduct is swiftly dealt with.
Facebook users act as the worlds largest neighbourhood watch and are very active in keeping the site safe. 
When matters of serious criminality are found on Facebook then we work with law enforcement to bring those responsible to justice.
Facebook launched on the New York stock market last month making many of its staff instant millionaires.
But the value of the shares has plummeted since then falling almost per cent in just over a fortnight.
As a result founder Mark Zuckerberg has seen .billion wiped off his personal fortune taking it to a still extremely healthy .billion.
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
Kenyan police say they have cracked a cyber crime centre run by Chinese nationals from upmarket homes in the capital Nairobi. 
Police believe they were involved in hacking and money laundering. The group has been remanded in custody for five days to allow for further investigations.
It was checking the passports of the suspects to see whether they were in fact Chinese nationals the official told the BBC on condition of anonymity. 
Police raids were triggered by a fire on Sunday at a home in Nairobis Rhunda estate in which one person died.
Preliminary findings show the fire was caused by one of the servers they were illegally operating the director of Kenyas Criminal Investigations Department Ndegwa Muhoro told the privately owned Standard newspaper.
Numerous telephone headsets computers linked to highspeed internet and monitors were found.
The suspects are being interrogated to establish their mission in the country and what they wanted to do with the communication gadgets Mr Muhoro is quoted by AFP news agency as saying. 
The charges against the so far include being in the country illegally and operating radio equipment without the necessary permits AFP quotes an unnamed source as saying.
The suspects had been living in militarystyle dormitories and Chinese officials were shocked by the revelations the Standard reports. 
The group had been preparing to raid the countrys communication systems and had equipment capable of infiltrating bank accounts Kenyas MPesa mobile banking system and ATM machines according to Kenyas privately owned Daily Nation newspaper. 
Kenyas Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed summoned Chinas ambassador on Wednesday and made it clear that the Chinese government should fully cooperate on this matter Fred Matiangi the communications minister said.
China promised to send investigators to work with ours on this matter he added. 
The BBCs Paul Nabiswa in Nairobi says the raids come at a time when many Chinese companies are investing heavily in Kenya especially in the construction industry.
The Kenyan government has signed many bilateral agreements with China and Chinese nationals have roles in government programmes including in higher education institutions he says.
A sevenyear inquiry into the Iraq War concludes that peaceful options had not been exhausted and there was no imminent threat from Saddam Hussein.
The online pranks and threats caused mayhem in communities as far away as Ontario California and Florida.
OTTAWA The RCMP commissioner has quietly warned Public Safety Minister Steven Blaney the government must do more to fight cybercrime an expandin.
A British man pretending to be Justin Bieber who lured and then recorded children committing sex acts on their web cams was sentenced yesterday to .
For the second year in a row the city of Burlington Ont. has been named the r.
The federal government has launched a national campaign aimed at stopping cybercrime and helping Canadians protect themselves online.
THE CANADIAN PRESS The Prime Ministers Office has confirmed that Stephen Harper is alive and well this morning after hackers posted a false notice.
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
A school teacher in Mumbais central suburbs was recently informed by a student that he thought her Facebook account may have been hacked. He showed her messages sent to him via Facebook chat from her account. Shocked she realised that someone had created a duplicate profile in her name with her photograph and other details. Worse she found several other students had received obscene messages from this duplicate account.
When she approached cyber police station police found one of her students who she had reprimanded in class was behind the crime something he probably thought was a prank to extract revenge. The minor was subsequently arrested by BKC cyber police station.
More and more youngsters keen on instant retribution and the perceived anonymity of the internet along with what police say is a casual view of online misdemeanors are finding themselves in a runin with the police. The Mumbai police encounters nearly three to five such cases everyday where fake profiles are created and obscene content uploaded to tarnish someones reputation.
DCP Dhananjay Kulkarni said while they do not have statistics specifically for crime related to fake profiles they have registered offences related to social networking sites from January to October this year compared to such cases in the period last year.
The biggest problem in such cases according to officers is that youngsters do not realise that what they are doing is a crime as defined by sections C identity theft and D cheating by impersonation of the Information Technology Act in addition to certain sections of IPC.
While it does happen in some cases that the victim finally realises that the person behind such profiles is known to them depending upon the relation they share with the person they may choose not to press charges. A lot of times if it is a youngster the parents plead before the victim saying that it would destroy hisher life and the complainant understands. But such instances are now rare the officer said.
However in some cases like that of a Bhoiwadabased chartered accountant CA whose fake profile was created an FIR has already been registered. The CA approached cyber police when earlier this month someone uploaded a post saying he was supplying call girls after creating a fake profile in his name and tagged his relatives and friends in the post leading to a flurry of phone calls.
Similar was the case of a yearold girl from a Vile Parlebased college who had stopped using Facebook in . Someone cropped her image from a group photograph that one of her friends had uploaded and used it to create a Facebook profile in her name and added her friends.
When she started telling indecent things about her family the friends approached her. I realised that someone had created a fake profile in my name. But I have a clue who the person might be she told The Indian Express while waiting to register an FIR at BKC cyber police station.
Cyber crime expert Vijay Mukhi says There has to be a course on cyber security in schools in which it has to be drilled into the minds of youngsters.
DCP Mohan Dahikar who supervises the cyber police station said that given this trend people also have to be careful about what information they put up on the internet. There are certain options in privacy settings that people need to use as well he said.
Organised crime has been quick to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Internet particularly the growth in ecommerce and online banking.
Specialist criminal groups target individuals small businesses and large corporate networks to steal personal information in bulk in order to profit from the compromised data available to them.
Visit our guidance pageforconsumersforfurther information on these threats and tips on how to combat them.
Visit our guidance pages forbusinessesfor further information on Hacking and DDoS attacks.
The National cyber crime unit NCCU is the part of the NCA that helps fight cyber crime in the UK. Find out more about the National Cyber Crime Unit.
CERT Australia is aware that Australian organisations have recently been targeted by scam emails which threaten a DDoS attack unless a bitcoin ransom is paid. Potentially a DDoS attack could not only disrupt a companys online activities via its website it could also stop clients from doing business with the company online.
no DDoS attack occurs once the payment deadline has expired and no payment has been made.
advise your upstream providers andor DDoS protection providers of any DDoS threats
prepare by engaging a DDoS mitigation service andor provision a high availability network architecture
After months of intense consultation across business government and academia the Australian Government has launched Australias Cyber Security Strategy.
The Strategy sets out a national approach to meeting what the Prime Minister identifies as the dual challenges of the digital age advancing and protecting our interests online.
Under the Strategy the Australian Government will increase the capacity of CERT Australia to work with Australian businesses across these core areas.
More detail including the full report is available from the Cyber Security Strategy website.
CERT Australia is aware that over the past two months at least three major international organisations have been targeted by a new phishing scam which seeks to expose sensitive employee information.
The phishing email which appears to be from the CEO or executive of an organisation is sent to the Human Resources department requesting the organisations personnel details.
The scam presents as a significant risk to employees personal information as personnel data contains names addresses wage amount tax file number and health care information and could be used for identity theft or tax fraud.
This is the first Cyber Security Survey conducted by the Australian Cyber Security Centre ACSC to better understand the cyber security posture and attitudes across some of Australias systems of national interest.
Industry data was collected from major Australian businesses that partner with CERT Australia. These businesses underpin the social and economic welfare of Australia by delivering essential services such as banking and finance defence industry providers communications energy resources transport and water.
Registration is now open for the Critical Infrastructure Resilience CIR Forum hosted by the AttorneyGenerals Department and scheduled for June in Melbourne.
The CIR Forum will explore the impacts of new technology on Australias increasingly complex and interconnected critical infrastructure.Delegates will have the opportunity to interact with presenters and discuss the theme of Technology Challenges and Opportunities in CI Resilience.
For more information contact cireventatag.gov.au or visit the Events page of the TISN website www.tisn.gov.au.
Strengthening the security and resilience of cyberspace has become an important homeland security mission.
Todays world is more interconnected than ever before. Yet for all its advantages increased connectivity brings increased risk of theft fraud and abuse.
DHS works with each federal civilian department and agency to effectively respond to everchanging threats against their networks.
DHS draws on the Nations full range of expertise and resources to secure critical infrastructure from cyber threats.
DHS provides assistance to potentially impacted entities analyzes the potential impact across critical infrastructure investigates those responsible in conjunction with law enforcement partners and coordinates the national response to significant cyber incidents.
Protects businesses and individuals from Internetbased risks and from risks relating to information technology infrastructure and activities.
Information sharing is essential to the protection of critical infrastructure and to furthering cybersecurity for the nation.
Every time we connect to the Internet we make decisions that affect our cybersecurity.
America needs well trained professionals working in cybersecurity roles. These professionals are critical in both private industry and the government for the security of individuals and the nation. The Department of Homeland Security DHS is committed to strengthening the nations cybersecurity workforce through standardizing roles and helping to ensure we have welltrained cybersecurity workers today as well as a strong pipeline of future cybersecurity leaders of tomorrow.
The demand for an experienced and qualified workforce to protect our Nations networks and information systems has never been higher.
DHS empowers its cybersecurity programs to succeed by integrating privacy protections from the outset.
DHS continues to research and develop new innovative solutions to complex cybersecurity problems.
Information on implementation of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of and DHSs Automated Indicator Sharing AIS initiative.
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
The owner of this website www.theeastafrican.co.ke has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebfdafua.
The owner of this website www.cybercrimecomplaints.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beua.
All the latest horse racing form betting odds news breeding jockey and trainer information for Cyber Crime. Cyber Crime is a born in by Success Express out of Stashed trained by the Alan Mathews stable.
The current race record for Cyber Crime is wins from starts with prizemoney of .
State exclusions apply to some offers. Please check TCs of each offer with the bookmaker.
Recently there were reports that cyber criminals had hit the organisation in charge of Australias finances. In another incident some hackers even got to the personal details of Michelle Obama the wife of the US President. So why are people doing this Sarah looks at some of the different types of hackers out there and why they do it.
Theyre the criminals of the st century using technology to steal to spy to create havoc. These are the cyber criminals. If you think of how much we use the internet every day its easy to see why online security is a big issue.
All of that information going back and forth from entertainment to bank accounts business records even government secrets. Its all online and its very attractive to criminals. Cyber crime is thought to cost the world about billion dollars a year and its a big worry for businesses governments and ordinary internet users. So who are these cyber crooks Lets have a look at some of the suspects.
Pirates are a pretty common sort of cyber criminal. Theyre people who download upload or share digital material that they dont have the rights to like movies or games or music. Thats against the law and the entertainment industry says it costs them hundreds of millions of dollars a year.
Heres another one you might have come across. The phisher is someone who sends out emails trying to scam you out of your personal details. Have you ever had an email telling you youve won lots of money Maybe a foreign prince who wants to give you his fortune. Thats phishing and people who fall for it can lose a lot.
Phishers sometimes hook people in using fake websites which record your passwords and sometimes they spread malware nasty computer programs designed to spy on you or wreck your system.
Hacktivists are more controversial. Theyre people who use their programming skills to protest for things they believe in and while not all of them break the law some do. They can bring down websites or steal digital secrets not for money to prove a point. 
Hackers going by the name Anonymous and using this symbol have been behind some big cyber attacks. In Australia they hacked into an internet company and stole peoples details to protest against the governments plans to keep track of people on the net. Theyve also hit overseas governments and businesses. And while the hackers say theyre fighting for peoples rights others say theyre committing cyber terrorism.
Then theres these guys The Advanced Persistent Threat agents or APTs. Theyre the ones that really worry governments around the world. Theyre groups of skilled hackers with lots of resources who are able to do serious digital damage. They might work for criminals stealing money and information. And they might work for governments.
China is often accused of employing APTs to collect information from overseas governments. But its not the only country doing it. A few years ago the USA and Israel employed hackers to attack the computers of nuclear scientists in Iran. Fighting cyber crime is big business and programmers are always working to keep one step ahead writing programs which detect malware and building better online security systems. 
Often the people who know how to commit cyber crimes end up working for the good guys trying to stop others from doing the wrong thing. As for the rest of us the best way to protect ourselves is to know about the crims that are out there and use common sense to stay safe on the net.
its not that bad i mean if annonymus is stoping goverments spying on OUR personal info its ok im with them
Why would someone be that bad Its just sick and kinda creepy that someone can see everything I post online
I didnt realise how big a deal this is Imagin getting on of those vids from anonymous that would be scary
The world of cyber things are growing bigger and bigger only because people are using computers more often. Its shocking to see why hackers would do such a thing
I really think this story is informative and it tells people what can happen if they put there email address into some website that hackers are on.thanks BTN Behinds the News you are the best Daisy
WOW It is amazing that there are so many people in the world that can do this. We really need to put a stop to this
i think cyber crime is a great report and tells you lots of important information
They should actually have like a security hatch so then if someone tries to hack something the security hatch can warn them so they can stop them
i enjoyed the video and i want the people to stop haking into things. i have never haked into anything befor and i never will because it is bad and it castes the world millions of money
i think to stop this cause we should tell a adult thats looking after you to check on the site you are on and see if your safe. And count keeper can block sites that have been hacked before like facebook so no one gets hacked or harmed.
I think that cyber crime is definitly not on. I know its already illeagul but I would like the government to try harder if they can to stop this issue. I dont think the cyber criminals themselfs would like it if they got hacked then they would know how we would feel. I agree with most people that cyber criminals should be stopped. Thanyou Jess.
phishers A message is NOT a virus a virus is completely different. This is a scam.
If you have a comment on a story then please submit your comment via the story page. If you need to ask something else though please email either the
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
Democratic National Committee computer databases have been compromised by Russian cyber spies.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
It has now been nearly three months since Kennedy Odom was forced out of school with a mysterious medical diagnosis.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Apple is battling an FBI order to unlock encrypted iPhones. While some want Apple to comply with the ruling Apple and its advocates said complying with the order undermines their customers security and creates a dangerous precedent.
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Facebook Twitter Instagram what does this mean for communication and Americans privacy
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
Exploring cybercrime space social media computers and technological advances that change our lives daily.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
From SpaceX stepping into the void the closed NASA Space Shuttle programto news about the planets including a possible new large one click here for all the news regarding space the universe and beyond.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
The woman claims the restaurant kicked her and her friend out because of her telltale red baseball cap with the words Make America great again. The restaurant claims the two were drunk and disorderly.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
An attack on a homeless man found dead in a park one where Scott Eldridge frequently sleeps was the third one in hours in the city. The victims were all homeless men all likely sleeping.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The house was ransacked with TVs surveillance cameras and an alarm system ripped out but there was more than just missing items. There were beer cans and cigarette butts.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
The cabbiebrought it right to the Boston Police who emptied the bag and found several bundles of bills totaling nearly in cash.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
About signs have already been placed but they dont just convey the simple no swimming type of warning.These are more specific signs warning about alligators.
Explore the latest and greatest creative work from around the globe.
Providing great companies with the recognition they deserve.
Take a fresh approach to raising your profile with potential clients.
Search jobs in marketing advertising creative and media.
The Drum app brings you some of the worlds best marketing and media news analysis and creative insights. Already the UK and Europes number one marketing platform we are also now covering the USA and Asia.
Delivered every fortnight The Drum Magazine distils the babble of marketing industry commentary and news into a single intelligible and intelligent package. And because of its size it has the space to showcase creative at its best.
Cyber Crime is increasing day by day. Its a huge problem for police officer to handle such type of cases so they get stressed and have the special tribunal court. This type of news are unchecked largely due to legal loopholes and legal misconception about the Crime.
When the culprits are taken to court for their persecution under the electronic transition Act . Its difficult to deal such cases due to lack of expertise and human resource. Metropolitan Police Crime Division MPCD has found cases in months and its big issues for Nepali police. The court releases the accused despite having substantial evidence Dhami said.
Mainly this type of news comes from email threats and they asks for money and harassing the receiver. For these type of crimes they need a separate cells where only cyber crimes criminals are investigated. Our country lacks of specialized human resource to tackled down such cases. Cyber Crime expert Mr. Baburam Aryal said that It been almost five years but the government hasnt taken any initiative regarding the information of a tribunal court to deal with such crimes.
Electronic Transaction Ordnance was established in and at that they established Cyber Regulation Applet ate Tribunal court. We are very back in comparison of others to develop in the cyber crime for their rehabilitation.
We are lacking IT expert a legal expert and management expert to work against cyber crime. Cyber crime is sorted out by tribunal court for this government has to established a tribunal court to deal with the such cases.
Lawyers didnt have the ideas to deal such cases for this government have to hire some expert to handle such type of crime. We know we have few cases but the government is regarding talks about such cases to provide Tribunal court and its necessary.
Annual International Conference on Information Technology for Development July August . A short brief of Event This.
Cyber Security international Nepal team members held a short awareness session at Department of IT Government of Nepal Thapagaun..
News by Dr. Ramhari Subedi As mobile phones are becoming very useful and very popular threats level have also.
CSI Nepal conducted th Cyber Security Awareness Training at Lumbini Academic College.In its latest edition of awareness camps CSI.
Hope International College HIC is one of the reputed and fully organized Purbanchal University and CTEVT affiliated college. From.
Nokia phone which sometimes used to rule the mobile market has been disappeared in recent times. Maybe most of. 
Apple Company known as the most leading company in technology worldwide. Apple Company is well known for producing if. 
App and number made public to provide information regarding the earthquakes Kathmandu May An application names Nepal. 
Forum provides a wealth of Information. You can find answers to your questions and learn more about specific topics.. 
The worlds first computer the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Calculator ENIAC pictured here. 
Forum provides a wealth of Information. You can find answers to your questions and learn more about specific topics.. 
We live in the most advanced era of technology and so many accomplishment have been done in the recent. 
This guide is created as an overview of the Linux Operating System geared toward new users as an exploration. 
The Cyber Crime Police station shall have the jurisdiction in respec t of all the offences comitted under the Informatio Technology Act and laws relating to Intellectual property rights and other related offences under any law for the time being in force COMMITTED IN THE COURSE OF THE SAME TRANSACTION. As per the ammendments to the IT Act the minimum rank of investigation of cyber crimes is POLICE INSPECTOR and any jurisdicational police station can register and investigate.
New research out today from Cyber Streetwise and KPMG suggests small businesses are underestimating the impact a cyber attack could have on their reputation.
The research found that more than nine in ten small businesses surveyed think about their companys reputation frequently or all the time but arent considering how a breach could affect it.
Consumers were also surveyed and the research found that are concerned about which businesses have access to their data and whether its safe and over half say that a cyber breach would discourage them from using a business in the future.
For more information and to make your businessmoresecure sign up to the Governments Cyber Essentials.
National Federation of Self Employed Small Businesses Limited Sir Frank Whittle Way Blackpool FY FE. National Federation of Self Employed Small Businesses Limited FSB is registered in England number 
CERT Australia is aware that Australian organisations have recently been targeted by scam emails which threaten a DDoS attack unless a bitcoin ransom is paid. Potentially a DDoS attack could not only disrupt a companys online activities via its website it could also stop clients from doing business with the company online.
no DDoS attack occurs once the payment deadline has expired and no payment has been made.
advise your upstream providers andor DDoS protection providers of any DDoS threats
prepare by engaging a DDoS mitigation service andor provision a high availability network architecture
After months of intense consultation across business government and academia the Australian Government has launched Australias Cyber Security Strategy.
The Strategy sets out a national approach to meeting what the Prime Minister identifies as the dual challenges of the digital age advancing and protecting our interests online.
Under the Strategy the Australian Government will increase the capacity of CERT Australia to work with Australian businesses across these core areas.
More detail including the full report is available from the Cyber Security Strategy website.
CERT Australia is aware that over the past two months at least three major international organisations have been targeted by a new phishing scam which seeks to expose sensitive employee information.
The phishing email which appears to be from the CEO or executive of an organisation is sent to the Human Resources department requesting the organisations personnel details.
The scam presents as a significant risk to employees personal information as personnel data contains names addresses wage amount tax file number and health care information and could be used for identity theft or tax fraud.
This is the first Cyber Security Survey conducted by the Australian Cyber Security Centre ACSC to better understand the cyber security posture and attitudes across some of Australias systems of national interest.
Industry data was collected from major Australian businesses that partner with CERT Australia. These businesses underpin the social and economic welfare of Australia by delivering essential services such as banking and finance defence industry providers communications energy resources transport and water.
Registration is now open for the Critical Infrastructure Resilience CIR Forum hosted by the AttorneyGenerals Department and scheduled for June in Melbourne.
The CIR Forum will explore the impacts of new technology on Australias increasingly complex and interconnected critical infrastructure.Delegates will have the opportunity to interact with presenters and discuss the theme of Technology Challenges and Opportunities in CI Resilience.
For more information contact cireventatag.gov.au or visit the Events page of the TISN website www.tisn.gov.au.
Participating in a recent seminar on cyber crime which was organized by the Indian Police Foundation IPF Dr. Muktesh Chander Goas Director General of Police DGP said Spying has been there for ages and the digital age is the golden age of spying.cyber crime is what affects all police officers because under the IT Act police officers of the rank of inspector and above are supposed to be investigating such cases. We India do not have those kinds of inspectors who can investigate these types of cases.
Dr. Chander said that it is very surprising to note that this IT Revolution era only cyber crime related cases have been registered under various Income Tax Acts as per data provided by the National Crime Records Bureau NCRB.
This is not even the tip of the iceberg. We havent seen the iceberg at all. Computer emergency response teams handle cases. So far lakh BOTS a software application that runs automated tasks scripts over the Internet. They perform tasks that are both simple and structurally repetitive at a much higher rate than would be possible for a human alone were tracked in India. BOT is one system which is penetrated and comes under the command and control of somebody else Dr. Chander added.
Emphasizing on the gravity of the threat of cyber crime he said Indian websites were defaced in .. percent of them would be cyber crimes but just as we ignore chain snatching we have been ignoring all of these cyber crimes. For each one of them there should have been a case registered.
Delving deeper into the subject the Goa police chief maintained that the cyber espionage target in India is the Ministry of External Affairs all kinds of diplomats bureaucrats the armed forces where the ITBP is one of their important targets all security forces sensitive organizations and high value organizations. The ISI Pakistans InterServices Intelligence has been using cyber espionage for a long time.
He said that while it is fine that everyone these days is on social media they must know or be advised that communicating through this medium involved a lot of risks.
Being involved with social media he said is the easiest way to install Malware and to reveal personal identifiable information which in turn exposes you to fishing.
They cyber criminals know exactly who you are what you are interested in places from where you are corresponding and then they will send you such a message that unless you are really an expert in cyber security you wont be able to detect that this is spear fishing mail targeted only at you Dr. Chander said.
He said that it is a matter of concern that we dont have a policy about the personal use of social media by employees of sensitive organizations.
This is one important issue that we need to address. Abroad there are guidelines on how to use the social media both as an organization and as an individual he added.
Apart from the threat of Spear Fishing Dr. Chander talked about a low key virus called Ransomeware which he said is affecting a large number of organizations.
He said that while the NCRB has been quantifying Facebook defacement email and web hacking there should be more discussion on the subject and a greater fine tuning in terms of classification.
On the issue of Smart Cities he said that he had suggested to the Ministry of Home Affairs to create a small think tank or initiate an exercise on how to deal with smart city security. He said that it would be futile to create a smart city first and then think of a place where a police station should come up.
He also issued cautionary advice on the use of smart phones. We are living in a planet of Apps all free I am talking of the WeChat application. The WeChat headquarters is in Guangdong China the headquarters of cyber espionage. What all of these applications are doing is cyber espionage. Why should you allow such a thing to happen
He concluded by saying that there was a need to make decryption technology in India very strong to prevent being handicapped.
Whatsapp has started endtoend encryption all VOIps are encrypted etc. Which such strong encryption nobody on earth all the super computers of the world put together cannot break. We are an IT power but we are nowhere near being a cyber power he said. ANI
With Resolution IT our IT hardware support partners arejust a phone call away and the entire team know they can rely on them. 
This solution from Resolution IT is totally flexible both in terms of access andbudget. We have an IT setup that perfectly serves the needs of our business in acost effective way.
We have beendoing business with Resolution ITover the last yearsand I would recommend them to anyone looking for an IT company.
Resolution ITs emphasis on a faultless service is consistently achieved through their highly committed team their professionalism and their expertise. Mid Europa Fund Management is proud to be associated with Resolution IT.
We had full confidence in Resolution IT to provide an appropriate and cost effective solution for our business that was flexible for our requirements.
Ourcompanyboasts firstclass technology solutions that are highly efficient business intelligent andfutureproofed. Partnering with Resolution IT was the right choice they offer excellent service and support for our fast paced developing business.
Our bespoke IT service from Resolution IT is perfectly tailored for the business backed by efficient and professional support that we can always rely on.
We cannot praise highly enough the service and response times we receive from Resolution IT and their proactive approach to our IT requirements is refreshing.
Thededicated service response times technicalknowledge and customer relations is fantastic. There is a total peace ofmind that our IT requirements are taken care of.
As innovators in our industry our business requires significant IT services and the established relationship we have with Resolution IT works perfectly.
Resolution IT has been providing IT support for Situations virtually since the day they opened for business and weve found their service second to none.
Resolution IT deliver every time and keep us informed with all the latest technology relating to our IT requirements. We would highly recommend them as a forward thinking company that deliver on their promises.
It has been a pleasure dealing with a company so committed to getting it right for the customer. Resolution IT have always responded rapidly to our requests and have provided most effective solutions to our IT and networking needs.
Since using Resolution IT I have been delighted with the efficiency professionalism that my company has received.
Great video from Microsoft about how your data is secure in the Microsoft Cloud.
We have come to realise that science and technology parks and areas of innovation have catapulted the most prosperous countries to where they are today as they came to rely less on commodities and extractive industries and more on the ingenuity and skills of their people as well as actively deployed technology and science. 
error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.
Take a look at our first ever Video blog. If i can get any good at them there may be more of these in the works. Anyway check it out and enjoy.
A Russian hacker has admitted his involvement in one of the biggest data breaches in history targeting such networks as the NASDAQ JetBlueEuronet Dow Jones Eleven and many more. He was apart of five hackers which hacked their way through these corporate networks and stole usernames and passwords credit card details and numerous sources of 
Hollywood is on the hunt for movie pirates online. A man from Northern Island has been handed a four year jail sentence for running online piracy streaming sites. Some included FastPassTV and BedroomMedia. The amazing thing is he ran the entire operation from his bedroom. The court was told that between and Mr 
Have you ever heard of Vcards Well they are usually used to share contact details between two phones but since WhatsApp has released its service to the online web environment people have discovered a way to exploit this. The infection is easy enough send a Vcard which is infected with whatever type of malware 
An Adobe Flash Zero Day exploit is now running wild among exploited website across the internet and infecting PCs and Smartphones of those unlucky enough to visit such a site. The Zero Day which was included in that GB file released by Hackers on Hacking Team earlier this week is being packaged up and sold 
If you havent already seen the news about this one yet well here it is. An Italian security firm working out of Milan namely Hacking Team became Hacked Team over night. The firm develops spyware which it supplies to governments across the globe. They have always claimed that they do not supply their tools 
A year old student from Brazil has been identified by Trend Micro as having written upwards of malware applications all of which target local banking institutions. The hacker uses the name Lordfenix and sells these malicious programmes for about US each. Lordfenix has said to have developed his skills online attending hacking forums 
BitStamp a hugely popular Bitcoin exchange was hacked back in January and the attackers made of with million worth of Bitcoins at the time. At the time BitStamp never disclosed any details of what happened but a confidential informant has leaked some of the details of the attack and bringing to light what happened. A 
New reports out today have highlighted how well malware developers are getting at writing new malware applications as they are being discovered by security firms once every seconds on average. Some of people believe that Android OS is the most reliable mobile OS out there but because of this large takeup it is 
Well the events of the past month have revealed some massive security flaws in the computer systems used by the US Government. Some . million records possibly more of government employees where accessed via hacking then a week later it was revealed that security clearances where also the target of the attacks. Some sources have 
CloudProxy is the WebSite Firewall from Sucuri. It stands between your site and the rest of the world and protects against attacks malware infections DDOS brute force attempts and mostly anything that can harm it.
The acting cyber czar for the Obama administration has resigned. Melissa Hathaway said she was leaving the post for personal reasons. President Barack Obama outlined his cyber security plans in May announcing in a speech that he intended to create a White House cyber security post a position that he has not filled yet.
Twentyeightyearold Albert Gonzalez of Miami Florida has been indicted for what is being called the largest hacking and identitytheft caper in U.S. history. On August federal prosecutors alleged that Gonzalez and two Russian accomplices masterminded a global cybercrime scheme to steal data from more than million credit and debit cards by hacking into the computer systems of five major companies which included Hannaford Bros. supermarkets Eleven and Heartland Payment Systems Inc. a creditcard processing company.
Gonzalez wasnt charged in an earlier cybercrime case since he became an informant to the U.S. Secret Service. But the brazen Gonzalez then returned to commit the largerscale crimes he is now charged with. He faces up to years in prison and in fines
In a presentation at BlackHat USA Dmitri Alperovitch a McAfee Internet threat researcher said that Russias history of organized crime has helped nurture the birth of sophisticated cyber crime organizations that have lead the way in the emergence of Internet worms botnets spamming phishing and credit card forums.
The ease of doing business as Alperovitch puts it has facilitated a reported incidents in translating to about million lost in the U.S.
Russian cyber crime has its roots in software piracy. But cyber crime took off following a Citibank hack linked to St. Petersburg Russia that allowed the attackers to access more than million via the telephone system.
The U.S. government is busting cyber criminals under the name Bot Roast. It refers to botnets which are a group of software robots that are used to do things like commit identity theft and install malicious software that logs users keystrokes to later steal personal information.
The Bot Roast program has caught cyber criminals responsible for more than million in economic losses to computer users. The FBI has caught eight people who have either been indicted pled guilty or sentenced for botnetrelated crimes. There have also been search warrantsserved in the U.S. and by overseas lawenforcement partners in connection with the Bot Roast operation.
Federal authorities in New Haven Connecticut and Los Angeles California have charged dozens of people with running an international computer crime ring responsible for stealing personal financial information from thousands of computer users and hundreds of their financial institutions.
The Justice Department announce the major cyber crime bust May . The culprits were mostly from Romania but also included people from the United States Canada Portugal and Pakistan.
Seven citizens of Romania were named in the New Haven indictment after they allegedly targeted customers of a Bridgeportbased Peoples Bank and other institutions.
Houston Texas resident Jodie Hoang has been charged with computer fraud. The charges were announced by U. S. Attorney Jim Letten which allege that Hoang an accounting clerk at Standard Mortgage Corporation in New Orleans Louisiana used the companys computer system to changed the deposit code for payments made by customers at mortgage closings. She then created checks payable to herself or her credit card providers.
If convicted Hoang faces up to five years in prison a fine and be placed on a term of supervised release after imprisonment for a period of up to three years. She could also be ordered to pay restitution to Standard Mortgage Corporation.
Lesmany Nunez was sentenced on July to months and one day imprisonment after pleading guilty to computer fraud. Nunez was also ordered to serve three years of supervised release with a special condition that he perform hours of community service by lecturing young people on the implications of hacking into other peoples computers and networks. Nunez was also ordered to pay in restitution.
Nunez was a former computer support technician at Quantum Technology Partners QTP located in MiamiDade County Florida. According to the proceedings Nunez accessed QTPs network remotely without authorization using an administrator account and password.
As a result of the unauthorized access to the system and the deletion of data QTP suffered over in damages
Last month David Patton of Centreville Virginia pleaded guilty in federal court for his role in creating and marketing software designed and used to send bulk commercial spam emails in violation of the CANSPAM Act.
Patton admitted that he designed the program to enable its users to insert false headers on spam emails it sent a violation of the CANSPAM Act. Patton faces up to six years in prison.
I welcome you to the official website of Crime Investigation DepartmentCID. CID is a premier investigating agency and specialized institution of the State Police. It deals with the investigation of major financial frauds especially grave and sensational crimes and cybercrimes. In addition the PCR wing Protection of Civil Rights of CID monitors the implementation of SC ST Act cases of Human rights violations custodial violence etc . The Women Protection Cell looks after gender specific
I welcome you to the official website of Crime Investigation DepartmentCID. CID is a premier investigating agency and specialized institution of the State Police.It deals with the investigation of major financial frauds especially grave and sensational crimes and cybercrimes. In addition the PCR wing Protection of Civil Rights of CID monitors the implementation of SC ST Act cases of Human rights violations custodial violence etc . The Women Protection Cell looks after gender specific offences human
This website has various features such as alerts news online complaint box Interpol notices information on various wings of CID certain related Acts etc. Citizens can lodge online complaints which will then be forwarded to concerned police stations for investigation. Further any information about occurrence of any crime can be given through this website and the details of the complainant will be kept confidential.
You are most welcome to share your feedback with us and I hope this website will act as an effective interface between the department and the citizens.
Women Child Issues
According to the Inshorts Youth of the Nation Poll Indians agree that juveniles should be tried as adults for committing heinous crimes. Out of respondents who voted for the question voted YES and voted NO. The Juvenile Justice Act was enforced from January after the bill was passed in Rajya Sabha in December .
The information and broadcasting IB ministry is planning to extend the working of its analytics wing for monitoring social media to ensure x coverage. The ministrys move is aimed at alerting the government on sensitive matters. The IB ministrys social media analytics wing scrutinises posts on platforms like Twitter and Facebook and submits reports to ministries and intelligence bureaus.
Madras High Courts Justice Karnan today stayed a Chief Justice of India CJI order transferring him to the Calcutta High Court. Under law lower courts cannot make judgments over any existing order of a higher court. Justice Karnan claimed the transfer order violated a judge Supreme Court bench order and requested the CJI not to interfere in his jurisdiction.
Police at the Bhopals Hanumanganj Police Station is offering free of cost education to poor children in the slums under a programme called Bal Sanjeevani Paramarsh Kendra. For the purpose a police vehicle picks up children from slums for lessons at the station. Funded by the Bhopals police department the first of its kind school was launched days ago.
Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the second phase of the OddEven scheme in the capital would be implemented between April and April . Female drivers and two wheelers will be exempted from the scheme. The move comes after the AAP government said that public opinion was overwhelmingly in favour of the scheme being reintroduced.
A plea challenging the power of State governments to suspend internet services was rejected by the Supreme Court today. Such steps are necessary to maintain the law and order situation in states said the apex court. The PIL had argued that while internet access could be restricted services could not be shut down completely.
Pakistans former President Pervez Musharraf on Thursday said Pakistans intelligence agency ISI trains LeT and Jaish militants and that terror attacks in India would not stop until India addresses the core issue of Kashmir. He further called everyone fighting in Kashmir a freedom fighter. He also accused Indias intelligence agency RAW of conducting attacks in Pakistan from Afghanistan.
Madhya Pradesh Police is considering getting GPS trackers to stop prisoners from escaping when they are taken out of their jails for work. On average to prisoners work outside the prisons every day police officials said. At a GPS tracker officials believe the technology could be cheaper than building high walls on lands around the jail.
The Bihar governments postmatriculation scholarship programme for Dalits is under the scanner after only one of scholarships given in for the session in Nawada district was found genuine. After the National Commission for Scheduled Castes intervened it was also revealed that five out of the technical institutes where the students were supposed to study were untraceable.
According to data released from the Ministry of Law Justice Parliament repealed obsolete and redundant laws in . Another laws were repealed by the Lok Sabha and are currently pending in the Rajya Sabha. Also in Parliament enacted bills into law one of which was the th amendment to the Constitution.
Nauroti Devi a former Sarpanch of Harmada village has taught many people including the panchayat secretary to operate a computer. Nauroti who never went to school learnt to use computers at Tilonias Barefoot College. I carried the computer and printer into the office and used it for regular communication and also take out printouts of notices she said.
Maharashtra Transport department on Saturday made helmet compulsory for both twowheeler riders and those sitting on the pillion. The decision was made following an order by the Bombay High Court. Maharashtra will start implementing the rule by next week. The department has also asked motorbike dealers to sell two helmets with a bike instead of one to customers.
An official web portal of the Indian Revenue Service IRS was hacked by a suspected Pakistani hacker team on Saturday. The website which acts as a communication medium between the Central Board of Direct Taxes and the IT department field offices was hacked with messages saying Pakistan Zindabad and we are team Pak cyber attacker.
A year old Italian woman could face up to six years in jail after her husband took her to court for bad management of domestic affairs. The man complained that she refused to cook for him and chronically neglected him. The Italian penal code punishes whoever mistreats a person in the family.
PakistaniAmerican LashkareTaiba operative David Coleman Headley today revealed to a Mumbai court that two attempts to attack Mumbai prior to failed to materialise. Headley said that he took directions regarding the Mumbai attacks from JamaatudDawah chief Hafiz Saeed adding that he met two majors from Pakistans intelligence agency who wanted to source information regarding India.
IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday said that the government is in talks with several countries including the US regarding the issue of cyber security. Cyber security represents something like bloodless warinternet. should not be allowed to be abused he said. He added that India is targeting a total digital economy of trillion in the next three years.
LashkareTaiba operative David Headley told a Mumbai special court today that the terror group targetted the Taj Hotel after it found information about a Defense scientists meet in the hotel. He also admitted that he had been arrested after his wife reported his close association with LeT to the police amid fear over the large amount of money Headley owed.
A cybersecurity firm found that Russianlanguage hackers used a virus to infect a regional bank and manipulate the rubledollar rate by over in December. Over minutes the exchange rate varied between and rubles per dollar significantly different from the market rate currently around . The bank claimed losses of around . million due to the attack.
Jun Survey shows that airlines plan to invest in cybersecurity programmes over next three years.
Jun According to a report produced by the network and security application specialist the average company suffers of DDoS attacks a year
Jun According the study conducted by the global cybersecurity firm many people risk sharing personal data through online communication channels.
Jun The majority of digital businesses will be hampered by the inability of their respective IT security teams to manage risk.
May A Finnish boy receives payout from Facebook after finding a bug that deleted comments 
Apr MoU testimony commitments both parties to safeguarding consumer rights in ecommerce
Mar Akamai Bot Manager enables organisations better management over bot detection 
Feb US intelligence director James Clapper reveals smart connected devices in the home can monitor owners
Jan Sophos reveals potential cybersecurity predictions which will shakeup the industry 
Jan The UAE is mulling tougher penalties for those that forge IP addresses with criminal intent
ITP.net is the Gulfs longestrunning technology news site touching on national regional and global events relevant to CIOs and techsavvy consumers.
More data has been generated in the past two years than in the entire history of mankind.
While for many there are reasons to celebrate this increasingly connected world others express growing concern about the risks associated with all that data an ideal target for cyber crime. Cyber security was one of the hottest topic at the recent CyberTech conference in Tel Aviv.
Everything is connected to the internet now said Yoav Leitersdorf managing partner at venture capital firm YL Ventures. I think that in about percent of cars in the US were shipped connected which means they had a sim card or some other form of connectivity. When you have so many devices connected to the internet you must secure them.
Last year hackers in the US managed to remotely access a Jeep Cherokee SUV through its onboard computer taking control of its steering transmission and brakes. Researchers executed a similar hack into the Tesla Model S.
Cyber security has basically escalated from being no priority maybe a year ago then through the Jeep hack to the Tesla hack to become top three priority right now said Yoav Leitersdorf.
As carmakers race to make their vehicles behave more and more like smartphones they will also have to deal with the security risks that go with connecting to the Internet. An increasingly autonomous car also means an increasingly vulnerable vehicle. 
Modern cars are being more and more connected to the cloud and hence there is a growing threat a cyber threat of anyone trying to hack into cars said Asaf Atzmon vicepresident of business development at automotive cyber security company TowerSec. Someone could create a largescale attack over the internet to a large number of vehicles and by penetrating through interfaces into some critical system actually get into the most safety critical systems of the car and actually take actions from affecting the steering of the car affecting brakes obviously affecting things that at the extreme end could endanger peoples life.
The growing trend to use internetconnected household appliances also puts users at greater risk especially from data theft. According to Yossi Atias the founder of Dojo Labsan an Israeli startup that pledges to secure the connected smart home there are solutions. 
The system knows how to automatically analyse the behaviour of the devices and when it identifies some anomaly in this behaviour it alerts the user but also blocks this activity he explained. 
Breaches originating from cloudconnected devices jumped by percent last year. Cyber crime is estimated to cost the global economy hundreds of billions of euros a year. In a sign that companies are taking security more seriously average investment into security budgets rose by one quarter in .
The owner of this website www.westyorkshire.police.uk has banned your access based on your browsers signature befeddua.
Your free trial has expired. Please register for a regular account.
The bad guys are winningaccording to Verizons Data Breach Investigations Report DBIR that says theres large increase in cyber crime.d the reports lead author Wade Bakersays But somehow thats not all bad news
The dataset that underpins the DBiR is comprised of over confirmed security incidents yep overSixtyThree Thousand. That rather intimidating number is a byproduct of another shift in philosophy withthis years report we are no longer restricting our analysis only to confirmed data breaches. This evolutionof the DBiR reflects the experience of many security practitioners and executives who know that anincident neednt result in data exfiltration for it to have a significant impact on the targeted business.
Of these incidents just were confirmed data breaches affecting countries.
The report which has been compiled by Verizons security arm every year for the last decade finds that percent of crimes fall into nine categories of security breaches including point of sales intrusions web app attacks cyber espionage insider misuse card skimmers DoS attacks crimeware miscellaneous errors and physical theft.
According to the DBIR point of sale or PoS intrusions have actually gone done since falling from percent of all breaches to percent. This means that shoppers information is less likely to be accessed when they make their purchases whichshould be somewhat comforting. However Targets massive breach last winter probably the biggest of the year was essentially a point of sale attack.
While fraud and financial motivations still tend to dominate the spectrum of reasons behind cyber crime believe it or not they declined as a proportion of the whole in . Meanwhile attempts to steal intellectual property rose Jacobs said. Its not all about money anymore but who has the intellectual property he said.
Hesseldahl notes that these are often inside jobs crimes perpetrated by company employees stealing proprietary information to set up a rival business.Web app hacking is also on the rise but percent of those are motivated by ideologyfun.
Concerningly cybercrime is also on the rise against countries especially the U.S. in the form of online espionage. Espionagerelated hacking was traced back to Chinese and East Asian residents in percent of cases but Eastern European hackers are gaining ground launching about onefifth of overall espionage attacks in . And to make matters worse hackers are able to access data faster than in previous years. The report authors note that though more cases of espionage were catalogued n the latest DBIR this could just be because Verizon looked at more data sources in the most recent report.
Though the report is something of a mixed bag Baker warns that the threat of cybercrime is increasing overall. After analyzing years of data we realize most organizations cannot keep up with cybercrime and the bad guys are winning he said but added that by applying big data analytics to security risk management we can begin to bend the curve and combat cybercrime more effectively and strategically. The authors offer basic protections for individuals and companies some of them as simple as using twostep verification and keeping your system up to date.
The footage appears to show two Baton Rouge officers wrestling yearold Alton Sterling to the ground then sticking a gun in his chest and shooting him dead.
The footage appears to show two Baton Rouge officers wrestling yearold Alton Sterling to the ground then sticking a gun in his chest and shooting him dead.
The longawaited Chilcot report found Britain joined the U.S.led war against Saddam Hussein before peaceful options for disarmament had been exhausted.
The Olympian faced up to years in prison for killing his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in .
The FC Barcelona and Argentina star was sentenced Wednesday to months in prison for tax fraud but wont have to serve time.
The governor of the Bank of England says the U.K. has entered a period of uncertainty and significant economic adjustment.
The national character can be glimpsed even in squabbles over Independence Day authenticity in Washington D.C. and Boston.
Georgias highest court allowed a lawsuit by a KKK chapter to move forward setting the stage for a trial.
The personal letters of luminaries like Philip Guston Dorothea Lange and Robert Rauschenberg offer insight into their work as much as their lives.
The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia said the tax is no longer necessary in light of the upcoming peace deal with the Colombian government.
Dozens of criminals have been killed since Rodrigo Duterte took office and on Tuesday he accused his police generals of corruption.
Saudi authorities have identified the man who carried out the Jeddah attack. A separate attack in Medina killed four people.
A parliamentary commission has recommended that the countrys multiple agencies be merged into a single one.
After completing a highrisk maneuver NASAs spacecraft is officially in the gas giants orbitand humankind is closer to Jupiter than ever before.
The UKIP leader who campaigned to leave the European Union resigned Monday saying he had done my bit.
At least people were killed in attacks in the Iraqi capital Sunday.
The country observed the first day of national mourning for the victims of the terrorist attack at a restaurant in Dhaka.
Readers complain about the imagery that adorns the authors highbrow novels. But theres value in embracing the oftscorned womens fiction genre.
The acclaimed writer of Night and Nobel Peace Prize laureate died Saturday at age .
The presumptive Democratic nominee sat down for a voluntary interview with federal investigators on Saturday.
The host of A Prairie Home Companion used storytelling to bridge the gap between red and blue states.
The army says people all foreign national nationals were killed. ISIS claimed responsibility.
The psychotherapist Marty Klein argues that most anxiety about its pervasive influence is misplaced.
The psychotherapist Marty Klein argues that most anxiety about its pervasive influence is misplaced.
Between and civilians and more than militants have been killed outside war zones the White House said.
Chris Christie and New Gingrich are reportedly being vettedand Trump will meet with Indianas Governor Mike Pence.
Daniel Radcliffe and Paul Dano star in an energetic indie film about the relationship between a lonely man and a magical corpse.
There needs to be more nuanced language to describe the expanding demographic of unmarried Americans.
Cyber theft has long replaced the traditional concept of bank robberies. A much more sophisticated method of attack that has been in use for years has accelerated of late as a series of hacks across the world has proved.
Recent international targets including the US Federal Reserve the Central Bank of the Philippines and Qatar National Bank QNB in Doha have all been subject to notable security breaches.
What is striking however is the fact that in some instances no money has been stolen.In QNBs case it was a robbery of data hundreds of customers account details including their passwords their social media profiles were posted on to a whistleblower website. No one really knows whats behind it but it proved that data is almost more valuable that money these days.
Where once the main purpose behind this activity was to make money hacking and leaking information has now escalated into issues as prominent as state secrets government intelligence and political gain as part of the hacktivism movement.
With the safety of the consumer remaining an issue due to the slowpaced movements of the enterprise world versus that of the everevolving technological capacity of the hacking world the public is forced to brace themselves for further and harderhitting attacks in times to come.
We talk to James Lyne director at the Londonbased Sans Security Institute and the global head of Research of SOPHOS about the impact of cyber theft and the future cyber crime.
We also talk to Nourulddin Aulabi a former professor of information security at Strayer University and a cyber security consultant about the issues behind cyberattacks.
Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable unlimited and global license for no consideration to use reuse delete or publish comments in accordance with Community Rules GuidelinesandTerms and Conditions.
She was Pakistans first female maxillofacial surgeon. After decades of substance abuse is she on the road to recovery
Graffiti artist has drawn attention to the skeletal remains of the hotel an accidental monument in central Beirut.
Undocumented and marginalised the children of migrants face arrest detention and possible death in Malaysias Sabah.
How is our need to be constantly connected impacting our lives and could a digital detox be the solution
Science TechnologyUS CanadaSocial mediaMediaFacebook
As governments worldwide scramble to beef up their online security how real a threat are cyber attacks
Inquiry into Britains role finds the consequences of the decision to invade Iraq in were underestimated. 
US invasion left country in ruins Iraqis say as protesters gather in London for official report on Britains role.
A look at the different reasons leading to a lack of coverage on a major human rights issue.
A dancer a model and a fighter dream of overcoming their harsh realities to achieve wealth and success beyond the slum.
East enters the world of Sabahs stateless children who spend their lives on the run from authorities.
Xiaoaxing Xi a physics professor at the Temple University accused of passing on confidential technology data to Chinese authorities has notguilty petition in the court of law. read more
China should be prepared for military confrontation in the South China Sea a local publication said on Tuesday. read more
PACAF which is overseeing the deployment wont say how long the Growlers will be in the Philippines. read more
International Police Association IPA member Michael Bakerattended the Cyber Crime crime seminar in September along with serving officers from Denmark England Holland Ireland Switzerland and Wales. The objective of the seminar was to outline the current position regarding cybercrime how it is perpetrated and what can be done to police it. He speaks to Web News about his experience.
Outside the classroom there was a lively social atmosphere. Delegates would meet socially and discuss the lectures in a more relaxed atmosphere. On this occasion there was a second seminar on child care running and delegates from both enjoyed the opportunity to mingle and share notes.
Meeting police officers from across Europe was definitely one of the key features of the course as there were constant conversations between them about their personal experiences. Some of the delegates were involved in the computer forensic field in their own forces and this made for searching questions being asked of the lecturers.
This was my first visit to Gimborn. I attended to learn more about this growing area of criminal activity.
I was really impressed with the content and organisation of the seminar. There was an atmosphere of friendly learning and an eagerness on the part of the delegates to learn from each other. There was more to this seminar than I could possibly do justice to in this short report. I will certainly be keeping an eye on future seminars and returning as soon as possible
Michael is a retired police officer barrister. Seminars at Gimborn are open and of interest to retired police personnel not just Serving. To find out more information about Gimborn click the image above. 
For more information on what cookies are and how you can manage and remove them click here.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more here
While rapid technological developments have provided vast areas of new opportunity and potential sources of efficiency for organisations of all sizes these new technologies have also brought unprecedented threats with them. Cyber security defined as the protection of systems networks and data in cyberspace is a critical issue for all businesses. Cyber security will only become more important as more devices the internet of things become connected to the internet.
This page introduces you to some of these threats including cyber crime cyber war and cyber terror and explain the precautions you should take against them.
Organisations that have to consider measures against cyber war or cyber terror include governments those within the critical national infrastructure and very highprofile institutions. It is unlikely that most organisations will face the threat of cyber war or cyber terror.
For additional information on this subject our book CyberWar CyberTerror CyberCrime and CyberActivism offers a nononsense discussion.
Congruent with the rapid pace of technological change the world of cyber crime never stops innovating either. Every month Microsoft publishes a bulletin of the vulnerabilities of its systems an evergrowing list of known threats bugs and viruses. For a more complete overview of cyber security threats mailing lists such as Bugtraq can provide uptodate resources listing all new bugs.
An effective cyber security posture should be proportional to the risks faced by each organisation and should be based on the results of a risk assessment.
Critical Issues Cyber Security looks at the cyber security challenges facing business today and proposes a fully structured approach to achieving both cyber security and cyber resilience.
Cyber criminals are indiscriminate. Where there is a weakness they will try to exploit it. Therefore all organisations need to understand the cyber threats they face and safeguard against them.
The Cyber Essentials scheme has been developed by the UK Government to help businesses deal with the businesscritical issue of cyber security and cyber resilience. The scheme provides a set of controls that organisations can implement to achieve a basic level of cyber security.
As well as protecting your critical assets customer details and your operating systems effective cyber security can also help organisations win new business by providing assurances of their commitment to cyber security to their supply chain partners stakeholders and customers.
ISO is the internationally recognised bestpractice Standard for information security management. It forms the backbone of every intelligent cyber security risk management strategy. Other standards frameworks and methodologies need ISO in order to deliver their specific added value. Implementing ISO will help you protect your information assets in cyber space comply with your regulatory obligations and thrive by assuring your customers and stakeholders that you are cyber secure.
We have created a range of packaged solutions that will enable you to implement ISO at a speed and budget that is appropriate for your individual needs and preferred project approach.
Each fixedprice solution is a combination of products and services that can be accessed online and deployed by any company in the world.
Find out more about our ISO packaged solutions and which one is right for you.
Get the latest news on IT governance risk management compliance and information security.
it to embrace criminal acts that can be accomplished while sitting at a computer disrupting the operation of remote computers with viruses worms logic bombs Trojan horses and denial of service attacks distributing and creating child victims. Cyber crime is cheap to commit if one has the knowhow to do it locate in jurisdictional terms given the geographical indeterminacy of the 
exhaustively but rather to raise and consider questions of particular interest that are presented by cyber methodologies of committing crimes. The most interesting questions arise at the points where criminal opportunities presented by the 
Keeping Pace with Todays Stalker U. Ill. L. Rev. Citations 
In the United States recent data suggest that stalkers terrorize approximately one million women each year. Although stalking is not necessarily a genderspecific crime seventyfive to eighty percent of stalking cases involve a male stalking a female. In addition only a minority of stalking victims are celebrities s indicate ordinary citizens account for fiftyone percent of stalking victims the remaining thirtytwo percent of stalking victims are lesserknown 
virtually every aspect of society electronic stalking has been increasing as well although no detailed statistics have been developed for this phenomenon. However both electronic harassment and stalking also seem to target women as victims. In a survey of members of Systers an electronic mailing list for women in computer science twenty percent of the respondents reported 
email or other electronic communications devices to stalk another person. Because of the emerging nature of this form of stalking the available evidence of cyberstalking is still largely anecdotal but it suggests that the majority in offline stalking in many online cases the cyberstalker and the victim had a prior relationship and when the victim attempts to end the relationship 
state lawenforcement agencies. For example the Stalking and Threat Assessment Unit of the Los Angeles District Attorneys Office has estimated that email percent of the roughly cases handled by the unit. About twenty percent of the cases handled by the Sex Crimes Unit in the Manhattan District Attorneys Office involved cyberstalking. Finally by an estimated forty percent of the caseload in the Computer Investigations and Technology Unit of the New York City Police Department involved electronic threats or harassment and virtually all of these. occurred in the past three or four years. 
prey and to broadcast false information about the people they target. And provides stalkers with almost impenetrable anonymity. In cyberspace stalking and harassment may occur via email and through user participation in news groups bulletin boards and chat rooms. One major difference from offline stalking is that cyberstalkers can also dupe other Internet users into harassing or threatening victims. For example a cyberstalker may post an inflammatory message to a bulletin board using the name phone number or email address actual cyberstalker or others will have the intended effect on the victim 
from the user but rarely do the ISPs authenticate or confirm this information. If the services require payment the user can typically pay in advance with a nontraceable form of payment such as a money order. As long as payment is received in advance the ISP has little incentive to verify any information given and will simply provide service to the account holder. Cyberstalkers can also change their screen names and use mail servers that purposefully strip identifying information and transport headers from electronic mail. Stalkers can make the message nearly perfectly anonymous by first forwarding 
these types of complaints. Online industry associations assert that providing more attentive protection to their customers informing them as to the ISPs complaint procedures the policies as to what constitutes prohibited harassment argue that no attempt to impose cyberstalking reporting or response requirements should be made unless fully justified yet they assert that the decentralized 
conduct between the stalker and the victim can be particularly ominous to a cyberstalking victim and make it more difficult for ISPs and law enforcement to identify locate and arrest the stalker. Also with the knowledge that Furthermore Internet web sites provide great assistance and resources to offline stalkers and cyberstalkers alike. Web sites can teach an individual 
Criminal antistalking statutes have provided a firststep toward eradicating this behavior. By using antistalking statutes in the criminal justice system the state controls the prosecution of the stalker and must prove its case is that with a conviction after a criminal trial a judge or jury can sentence the stalker to prison. Jailing a defendant provides at least temporary safety for the victim. However for some victims their stalkers are able to escape stalking statute and engaging in some form of cyberstalking. Until broader and methodologies in stalking cases victims may have to search for alternative 
available for sex anytime of the day or night and listing her home phone number and home address. In the next week Jane got as many as calls a day from as far away as Germany. Jane went to the authorities local county state 
didnt take anything and left. I felt violated and scared for my life said 
the intent to place that person in reasonable fear for his or her safety 
a knowing and willful course of conduct directed at a specific person that seriously alarms annoys torments or terrorizes the person and that serves no legitimate purpose. This course of conduct must be such as would cause a reasonable person to suffer substantial emotional distress and must actually 
time however short evidencing a continuity of purpose. Constitutionally protected activity is not included within the meaning of course of conduct. 
means a verbal or written threat or a threat implied by a pattern of conduct or a combination of verbal or written statements and conduct made with the intent to place the person that is the target of the threat in reasonable fear for his or her safety or the safety of his or her family and made with the apparent ability to carry out the threat so as to cause the person who the safety of his or her family. It is not necessary to prove that the defendant 
written threat including that performed through the use of an electronic communication device or a threat implied by a pattern of conduct or a combination of verbal written or electronically communicated statements and conduct made with the intent to place the person that is the target of the threat in reasonable fear for his or her safety or the safety of his or her family and made with the apparent ability to carry out the threat so as to cause her safety or the safety of his or her family. It is not necessary to prove 
broadening of stalking statutes suggested by Radosevich raise constitutional 
appears to be or conveys the impression of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct. By this act Congress attempts to criminalize the transmission of digitally created pornographic images that merely look like children engaging in sexually explicit acts even if no children are actually involved. Should 
statute prohibiting persons from knowingly promoting sexual performances by minors by distributing materials that depict such performances even if the materials were not legally obscene. In upholding the statute the Court concluded that states were entitled to greater leeway in the regulation of pornographic 
children to be a government objective of surpassing importance because it the child. The second reason given by the Court was that a state legitimately could conclude that sexual abuse is linked to the distribution of child pornography. and selling of child pornography plays in the production of such materials an activity that is illegal throughout the Nation. Fourth the Court concluded that the value of permitting live performances and photographic reproductions of children engaged in lewd sexual conduct is exceedingly modest if not de minimis and that the First Amendment interest is limited to that of rendering the portrayal somewhat more realistic by utilizing or photographing children. speech outside of First Amendment protection that is nonobscene child pornography was not incompatible with earlier decisions particularly when the class of materials bears so heavily and pervasively on the welfare of children engaged 
the Court placed it on the same level as obscene adult pornography yet altered the definition somewhat. Obscenity that is not protected under the First Amendment whether the average person applying contemporary community standards would sex b whether the work depicts or describes in a patently offensive way sexual conduct specifically defined by the applicable state law and c whether the work taken as a whole lacks serious literary artistic political or 
to the prurient interest of the average person is not required to find and need not consider the material at issue as a whole. While the definition of unprotected child pornography is not exact and to a degree shares the same difficulty in consistent application as that of Miller the Court suggested works would amount to little more than a tiny fraction of the materials within 
abuse an interest that complements an overall constitutional framework favoring statutory provisions that promote and protect the interests of children. Even so the Ferber Court restricted this new category of unprotected expression to laws aimed at works that visually depict sexual conduct by children below a specific age wherein the conduct proscribed is suitably limited and described. 
involve live performance or photographic or other visual reproduction of live whether visual depictions of children performing sexual acts or lewdly exhibiting their genitals would ever constitute an important part of any serious work the Court suggested that if it were necessary for literary or artistic value there are alternatives to the use of a child. Either a person over the statutory age who looked younger could be used or a simulation outside of the prohibition of the statute could be employed. That the Court envisioned the performance of actual children within its definition of child pornography is further intimated by a subsequent decision that defined the scienter requirement for a violation of federal child pornography law as including either an actual or constructive 
language such as the use of children sexual abuse lewd sexual conduct and children engaged in its production while it characterized the production of child pornography as an activity illegal throughout the nation. Nevertheless outside the statutory prohibition would be permissible the issue is whether Court concentrate its ruling in Ferber on participation because the New York statute was thus limited or did the Court notwithstanding the statute define 
confronted with an Ohio statute that criminalized the possession and viewing a Georgia statute that punished the private possession of obscene materials violated the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution. The Court stressed the privacy interests of Stanley and his right to read or observe in the privacy of his own home. Even though the material at issue was concededly obscene the interests advanced by Georgia in suppressing itthat is a fear sexual behavior or crimes of sexual violence did not override privacy considerations. 
that outweighed any privacy interest associated with the possession of child pornography. The Court concluded that three interests supported Ohios criminalization that the materials produced by child pornographers permanently recorded the by haunting them for years to come. Second because evidence suggested that pedophiles use child pornography to seduce children the Court reasoned that the state could legitimately encourage the destruction of child pornography by banning its possession. Third the Court found that it was reasonable for the state to conclude that production would decrease if demand decreased as a result of penalizing possession. While penalizing the possession of adult 
criminalization of the dissemination of child pornography but its possession of the child in the production of child pornography suggesting that the essence 
conduct. Andy intends these various depictions to be viewed all together as that is completely realistic. Andy created each element of Continuum without the use of a model. No actual child was involved in any way in the production of the work. Bill with Andys permission posts digital images of the separate panels of Continuum on a web site. Is the conduct of either Andy or Bill criminal
presently before the United States Supreme Court in Ashcroft v. Free Speech 
at Harvard and in various jobs he had acquired significant computer experience and expertise. When Morris entered Cornell he was given an account on the computer at the Computer Science Division. This account gave him explicit authorization to use computers at Cornell. Morris engaged in various discussions with fellow graduate students about the security of computer networks and 
the INTERNET worm or virus. The goal of this program was to demonstrate the inadequacies of current security measures on computer networks by exploiting was release of a worm into network computers. Morris designed the program into INTERNET which is a group of national networks that connect university governmental and military computers around the country. The network permits communication and transfer of information between computers on the network. 
attention to itself. The worm was supposed to occupy little computer operation time and thus not interfere with normal use of the computers. Morris programmed the worm to make it difficult to detect and read so that other programmers 
make the worm easier to detect and would bog down the system and ultimately cause the computer to crash. Therefore Morris designed the worm to ask the worm would not duplicate. However Morris was concerned that other programmers could kill the worm by programming their own computers to falsely respond the worm to duplicate itself every seventh time it received a yes response. As it turned out Morris underestimated the number of times a computer would be asked the question and his oneoutofseven ratio resulted in far more copying than he had anticipated. The worm was also designed so that it would once every week or two. This would have prevented the worm from accumulating on one computer had Morris correctly estimated the likely rate of reinfection. 
through a bug in the finger demon program a program that permits a person to obtain limited information about the users of another computer through the trusted hosts feature which permits a user with certain privileges on one computer to have equivalent privileges on another computer through a program of password guessing whereby various combinations of letters are tried out in rapid sequence in the hope that one will be an authorized users password which is entered to permit whatever level 
On November Morris released the worm from a computer at the Massachusetts worm came from Morris at Cornell. Morris soon discovered that the worm was replicating and reinfecting machines at a much faster rate than he had anticipated. or became catatonic. When Morris realized what was happening he contacted a friend at Harvard to discuss a solution. Eventually they sent an anonymous message from Harvard over the network instructing programmers how to kill clogged this message did not get through until it was too late. Computers military sites and medical research facilities. The estimated cost of dealing with the worm at each installation ranged from to more than . 
aA. He was sentenced to three years of probation hours of community service a fine of and the costs of his supervision. 
in Computer Crime Scandal Hacker Arrested after Bank Tampering. Damn kids. Theyre all alike. But did you in your threepiece psychology and you ever wonder what made him tick what forces shaped him what may have molded him I am a hacker enter my world. Mine is a world that begins with high school. Ive listened to teachers explain for the fifteenth time how work. I did it in my head. Damn kid. Probably copied it. Theyre all alike. I made a discovery today. I found a computer. Wait a second this is cool. it up. Not because it doesnt like me or feels threatened by me or thinks Im a smart ass or doesnt like teaching and shouldnt be here. Damn kid. door opened to a world. rushing through the phone line like heroin through an addicts veins an electronic pulse is sent out a refuge from the daytoday incompetencies is sought. a board is found. This is it. this is where kid. Tying up the phone line again. Theyre all alike. You bet your ass were all alike. weve been spoonfed baby food at school when we hungered for steak. the bits of meat that you did let slip through were prechewed and tasteless. Weve been dominated by sadists or ignored by the apathetic. The few that had something to teach found us willing pupils but those few are like drops of water in the desert. This is our world now. the world it wasnt run by profiteering gluttons and you call us criminals. We explore. and you call us criminals. We seek after knowledge. and you call us criminals. We exist without skin color without nationality without religious bias. and you call us criminals. You build atomic bombs you wage wars you murder cheat and lie to us and try to make us believe its for our own good yet were the criminals. Yes I am a criminal. My crime is that of curiosity. 
Should intent to cause harm make a difference Should Morris have been convicted If the Mentor committed the same acts as Morris would he deserve a greater sentence Consider that most hackers are young many are minors. Should this 
communication containing any threat to kidnap any person or any threat to injure the person of another shall be fined under this title or imprisoned 
to the Internet service provider ISP America Online AOL from his home AOLs service center in Ogden Utah. He sent a bomb threat to her computer to leave work early so they could go on a date. Mr. Kammersell claims that the route of the transmission where the sender and recipient are both in 
to AOLs main server in Virginia before going on to its final destination. sent the bomb threat it was automatically transmitted through interstate 
for creating and enforcing criminal laws. Does the Internet call for a different approach Should all computer crimes be considered federal What role should 
through the Internet breaks into computers that the Federal Aviation Administration FAA uses for air traffic control. He disrupts a regional air traffic network and the disruption causes the crash of a DC in the Rocky Mountains killing originating through the Internet but nothing else. Since anyone can access the Internet from anywhere in the world the FBI has no idea where the hacker may be located. Moreover they do not know the motive of the attack or the States and likely to strike again at any time or is it a fourteenyearold 
plane crash the FBI tracks the source of the attack to an Internet Service Provider ISP in Germany. Assuming the worst another attack could occur Germany is a mere conduit or whether the attack actually originated with a subscriber to that service. In either case the FBI needs the assistance of the German ISP to help identify the source of the attack but it is now 
from Germany or permission from the German government to continue its investigation 
conduct a search without German consent on the German ISP from their terminals 
in Germany will the German government be sympathetic to the U.S. plight 
States remotely and without advance notice conducting a search that may 
for law enforcement agencies around the globe as they grapple with new challenges posed by networked communications and new technologies. Traditional investigative procedures and particularly the often cumbersome procedures that govern the need in computer crime cases for immediate law enforcement action reaching beyond national borders. The globalization of criminal activity has created 
recognize the threat it poses to public safety or the need for international cooperation to effectively respond to the problem. Consequently many countries 
a consensus as to which computer and technologyrelated activities should be criminalized and then commit to taking appropriate domestic actions. But it is not as easy to implement. An international consensus concerning develop. Meanwhile individual countries that lack this kind of legislation 
who broke into computer systems at several American corporations then sent email to company officials demanding payment in exchange for not distributing or destroying sensitive data. To catch Gorshkov and prove his guilt the FBI set up sting operation. It created a shell computer security company called Invita in Seattle and invited Gorshkov to come to Seattle to test the Invita the challenge. Operating from a computer at the Invita office he demonstrated his hacking skill by penetrating the security system. In doing so however he accessed hacking tools he kept on his home machine in Russia. All the while the FBI secretly used a sniffer program that logs every keystroke a person 
that material claiming his clients privacy was invaded because he did not consent to have his computer usage recorded. Gorshkovs lawyer contends the FBI should have obtained a search warrant before downloading the information. The investigators say they had to follow this procedure because they needed to secure the incriminating information before the suspects Russian counterparts 
American systems Should countries have a right to conduct transborder searches of computers located in other countries to effectuate their own domestic laws 
Should the United States cooperate with German investigations into the dissemination U.S. complain when a country that does not criminalize the possession of child pornography refuses to cooperate with a U.S. criminal investigation into child pornography Will the Internet create a lowest common denominator approach to enforcing computer crime laws in which any Country in the world can create a safehaven that effectively blocks other countries from investigating computer 
. What conduct should be criminal in cyberspace How is computer crime different 
activities how should governments and individuals proceed Should it be legal 
argument is that if ISPs are held liable for crimes committed on their networks then they will more effectively police activity under their auspices. Furthermore that enhance accountability and traceability. Do you agree with this assessment 
. Wire and mail fraud laws often serve as a stopgap measure when legislatures have failed to keep pace with technology. Prosecutors use this laws to indict Is this an appropriate way to handle the problem of lag time before legislatures 
cases some commercial some tort and all of which involved horses. Similarly Easterbrook argues cyberlaw is meaningless as a separate discipline. Problems posed by technology can be solved using traditional approaches. Is this applicable in the area of cybercrime Or are the problems posed by technology qualitatively 
of crimes in cyberspace an effective argument in favor of the federalization 
David Goldstone Betty Shave International Dimensions of Crimes in Cyberspace 
Draft Convention on Cybercrime European Committee on Crime Problems Committee 
The Queensland Government announced it would establish the Cyber Security Unit to combat potential cyber threats made against it.
This will enable the Queensland Government to respond to the growing number of cyber security challenges it faces as we continue to deliver more services online.
Providing independent expert advice to the government the wholeofgovernment Cyber Security Unit will operate from the Queensland Government Chief Information Office.
Bangladesh Bank officials say the Federal Reserve Bank of New York failed to stop hackers from stealing million that it deposited with the bank but the Fed says theres no evidence of a hack.
Canada has had a spotty record on this front so far with government departments frequently finding themselves the victims of phishing and malware schemes.
A Canadian man says that he paid to have his personal data erased from the site and was shocked when the hacking group known as the Impact Team released his data.
The hackers released a manifesto threatening to release the personal info of users if the site isnt taken down calling its customers dirtbags who deserve no such discretion.
Former agent Carl Force crossed the line from enforcing the law to breaking it said US Justice Department attorney.
A DEA agent and a Secret Service operative involved in the investigation into the dark web site were charged with wire fraud and laundering hundreds of thousands of dollars in bitcoin.
Ulbricht is charged with several crimes for founding and earning millions from the operation of a site dubbed Amazon.com for drugs by US authorities.
The owner of this website latesthackingnews.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebdaddfua.
Cyber crime is on the rise and with it the demand for cleared cyber crime fighters. The demand for professionals who can assess detect and stop illegal activity is only increasing. From federal jobs to federal contractors the field is booming offers good salaries and continues to be tailor made for cleared veterans. Federal jobs 
Cyber crime is on the rise and with it the demand for cleared cyber crime fighters. The demand for professionals who can assess detect and stop illegal activity is only increasing. From federal jobs to federal contractors the field is booming offers good salaries and continues to be tailor made for cleared veterans.
Currently the FBI takes the lead in federal cyber crime investigations. This includes cyberbased terrorism espionage computer intrusions and cyber fraud. The FBIs Cyber Division is devoted primarily to computer intrusions computerbased crimes including fraud child predators and pirating of national intellectual property and partnerships with the private sector.
In addition to headquarter jobs the FBI has cyber squads in all field offices nationwide cyber action teams that travel internationally and computer crimes task forces trained to work with federal state and local agencies.
Cleared professionals interested in working for the FBI as cyber crime fighters may not find these jobs listed as such. For example job descriptions might call for furnishing analytical financial and technical support to undercover operations. But the job title Program maintenance and support specialist.
More common are openings for intelligence analysts. On the low end GS analysts earn to while GS analysts earn to . Those candidates with a security clearance and a bachelors degree in computer science fields will have an edge. Military experience specific to intelligence and technology is also a plus.
The National Security Agency NSA and Department of Homeland Security DHS actively look for cleared candidates to fill cyber crime positions. As a rule their postings include specific information about the requirements education and experience. As with other federal agencies NSA and DHS salaries have a broad range. For example a current opening for an intelligence analyst at NSA in Texas lists the salary range from to .
Cleared veterans may want to check out the National Initiative for Cyber Careers and Studies. Run by the Department of Homeland Security the site offers information about career paths education requirements training specific to federal cyber crime and additional information about who is hiring.
Similar to the demand for cyber security professionals which cuts across defense corporate and financial sectors cyber crime jobs are specific to monitoring hunting catching and thwarting computerbased illegal activity. In the private sector that means assessing cyber threats for malware botnets viruses hacktivism mobile vulnerabilities and emerging threats.
For many of these jobs duties involve analyzing and reporting of data providing incident briefs and conducting threat assessments on organized cybercriminal groups.
Special technical skills hiring managers look for include experience with applications such as OllyDBG IDAPro WireShark RegShot static reverse engineering techniques programming Python and Linux. Softer skills like excellent oral and written communications skills are also hotly demanded due to the fact that cyber analysts frequently write reports make presentations and must clearly explain their assessments.
Bachelors degrees are generally required with particular preference toward those in computer science information technology information assurance software engineering cyber law mathematics and business management.
Cyber crime job opportunities extend across the nation. A current sampling includes demand for a malware analyst at the National Cyber Forensics and Training Alliance in Pittsburgh computer forensics and intrusion analyst at General Dynamics in Maryland cyber threat intelligence analyst at VeriSign and information security analyst at GE Corporate in Virginia. In all of these a clearance is a requirement.
As of July the Bureau of Labor Statistics put the median salary at just under for cyber detectives and cyber crime investigators. Job growth in the field is projected to increase by percent in the next six years. As usual geography plays a role. A cybercrime analyst in New York averages while in San Antonio it is closer to and in Chicago .
ClearanceJobs.com the largest securitycleared career network specializes in defense jobs for professionals with federal security clearances. Search thousands of jobs from prescreened defense employers and government contractors. Learn More.
Pretoria The South African Bank Risk Information Centre Sabric has warned bank customers to pay more attention to their mobile security.
With the increase in cyber crime the organisation has warned that customers are increasingly at risk of falling prey to criminal activities. Sabric chief executive Kalayani Pillay said managing and protecting electronic devices such as cellphones tablets and PCs is crucial in ensuring that the scourge of cyber crime is minimised.
Speaking to the media and banking representatives at the organisations offices in Midrand on Thursday Pillay said online banking fraud was increasing due to phishing and malware attacks in the country. Cyber crime costs South Africa around Rbillion a year.
South Africa is one of the top targets for cyber crime in Africa due to its comparatively high levels of internet connectivity resulting in a larger attack surface than many other nations on the African continent said Pillay.
The countrys wealth and particularly its high GDP per capita compared to that of other nations in subSaharan Africa made it attractive to cyber criminals she said.
Online banking fraud increased especially because of the high levels of phishing and malware attacks targeting bank customers. Spear phishing targeting executives and senior management within corporates in order to facilitate the movement of large sums of money is prevalent said Pillay.
Banks continuously provided cyber security messages but criminals were devising new ways to steal from customers she said.
As more bank consumers migrate to online banking platforms the risk is that smartphones and handheld devices are being compromised said Pillay.
Sabric was working closely with law enforcement agencies to ensure a holistic approach to fighting these crimes is adopted.
Meanwhile Pillay also said Sabric had started a campaign titled Skelm to promote the notion of safety on the internet and to prevent banking fraud.
The campaign will provide various platforms on social media for the public to share their own experiences of being scammed in order to empower one another Pillay said.
Consumers must be aware of these risks and take steps to safeguard themselves.
The campaign was also aimed at creating an awareness about the implications of lack of cyber security and to reduce banking crime in South Africa through awareness.
Secure your smartphone by enabling the lock screen and use a pattern password or fingerprint screen lock.
Where possible dont save any sensitive information and bank account details on your electronic devices.
International Police Association IPA member Michael Bakerattended the Cyber Crime crime seminar in September along with serving officers from Denmark England Holland Ireland Switzerland and Wales. The objective of the seminar was to outline the current position regarding cybercrime how it is perpetrated and what can be done to police it. He speaks to Web News about his experience.
Outside the classroom there was a lively social atmosphere. Delegates would meet socially and discuss the lectures in a more relaxed atmosphere. On this occasion there was a second seminar on child care running and delegates from both enjoyed the opportunity to mingle and share notes.
Meeting police officers from across Europe was definitely one of the key features of the course as there were constant conversations between them about their personal experiences. Some of the delegates were involved in the computer forensic field in their own forces and this made for searching questions being asked of the lecturers.
This was my first visit to Gimborn. I attended to learn more about this growing area of criminal activity.
I was really impressed with the content and organisation of the seminar. There was an atmosphere of friendly learning and an eagerness on the part of the delegates to learn from each other. There was more to this seminar than I could possibly do justice to in this short report. I will certainly be keeping an eye on future seminars and returning as soon as possible
Michael is a retired police officer barrister. Seminars at Gimborn are open and of interest to retired police personnel not just Serving. To find out more information about Gimborn click the image above. 
For more information on what cookies are and how you can manage and remove them click here.
Cyber theft has long replaced the traditional concept of bank robberies. A much more sophisticated method of attack that has been in use for years has accelerated of late as a series of hacks across the world has proved.
Recent international targets including the US Federal Reserve the Central Bank of the Philippines and Qatar National Bank QNB in Doha have all been subject to notable security breaches.
What is striking however is the fact that in some instances no money has been stolen.In QNBs case it was a robbery of data hundreds of customers account details including their passwords their social media profiles were posted on to a whistleblower website. No one really knows whats behind it but it proved that data is almost more valuable that money these days.
Where once the main purpose behind this activity was to make money hacking and leaking information has now escalated into issues as prominent as state secrets government intelligence and political gain as part of the hacktivism movement.
With the safety of the consumer remaining an issue due to the slowpaced movements of the enterprise world versus that of the everevolving technological capacity of the hacking world the public is forced to brace themselves for further and harderhitting attacks in times to come.
We talk to James Lyne director at the Londonbased Sans Security Institute and the global head of Research of SOPHOS about the impact of cyber theft and the future cyber crime.
We also talk to Nourulddin Aulabi a former professor of information security at Strayer University and a cyber security consultant about the issues behind cyberattacks.
Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable unlimited and global license for no consideration to use reuse delete or publish comments in accordance with Community Rules GuidelinesandTerms and Conditions.
She was Pakistans first female maxillofacial surgeon. After decades of substance abuse is she on the road to recovery
Graffiti artist has drawn attention to the skeletal remains of the hotel an accidental monument in central Beirut.
Undocumented and marginalised the children of migrants face arrest detention and possible death in Malaysias Sabah.
How is our need to be constantly connected impacting our lives and could a digital detox be the solution
Science TechnologyUS CanadaSocial mediaMediaFacebook
As governments worldwide scramble to beef up their online security how real a threat are cyber attacks
Inquiry into Britains role finds the consequences of the decision to invade Iraq in were underestimated. 
US invasion left country in ruins Iraqis say as protesters gather in London for official report on Britains role.
A look at the different reasons leading to a lack of coverage on a major human rights issue.
A dancer a model and a fighter dream of overcoming their harsh realities to achieve wealth and success beyond the slum.
East enters the world of Sabahs stateless children who spend their lives on the run from authorities.
Small businesses can help protect themselves from cyber crime Security Minister James Brokenshire said at an industry conference this week.
The report builds on existing advice published last year by the government Steps to Cyber Security which is a straightforward blueprint explaining how board members and senior executives can manage cyber risks in order to protect their business. Many of the suggestions can be implemented at little or no cost.
Cyber security is a crucial part of the governments National Cyber Security Strategy.
Over million has been committed to the Home Office for enhancing our response to online crime the bulk of which is being used to strengthen law enforcement capabilities.
This includes the creation of the new National Cyber Crime Unit to tackle the most serious forms of cyber crime and bring more offenders to justice.
We need to make sure that all businesses large and small are engaged in implementing appropriate prevention measures.
This report will help give a greater understanding of how online security and fraud issues affect small businesses giving guidance as well as valuable top tips to protect their business.
The government is fighting back and has created a new National Cyber Crime Unit based in the National Crime Agency. It brings together experts from across law enforcement and beyond to target this new breed of organised criminals who are using their technical knowledge to rip off businesses and the public.
Small companies can be big business for cyber criminals. But while small businesses do not have the financial might of the international companies to protect their online assets there is much more that can be done to increase protection.
Together with the Minister for Universities and Science we have invested million in a National Cyber Security Programme which will help us forge closer ties with the public and private sector to make the UK one of the safest places to do business.
Dont include personal or financial information eg your National Insurance number or credit card details.
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v. except where otherwise stated
Focused reports on events business and lifestyle. In depth insightful influential.
Indepth look at issues behind the news with sections on people books and art.
A weekly motoring magazine packed with the latest local and global motoring news reviews and views.
Public lecture sees police chief recalling very first investigation and the expertise gained by his force since
Major General Khamis Mattar Al Mazeina Dubai Police Chief spoke about a number of cyber crime cases some old some recent at a public lecture held at the Scientific and Cultural Association in Dubai on Wednesday evening.
In Dubai Police received reports of cyber crimes entailing losses to the tune of Dh. million and the number increased to reports involving Dh. million in and to cases worth more than Dh. million in .
Maj Gen Al Mazeina gave details of the first crime related to the internet in Dubai. There was a young Emirati man an IT graduate who worked for a big petrol company. It was the time when internet cafes were popular. He would go to different internet cafes and hack into peoples emails especially of girls and steal their private photos and information.
The man would then use the information to blackmail the girls asking for large sums of money up to Dh depending on the extent to which the victims privacy was compromised in the photographs.
We received many reports of this and back then we did not have any plans or resources to handle such cases because it was new to us said Maj Gen Al Mazeina adding that Lt Gen Dahi Khalfan Tamim Deputy Chairman of Police and General Security in Dubai who was the then police chief asked them to start looking for personnel who were familiar with computers and had the skill level to investigate hacking cases.
We started looking at university students and youth and asking people to recommend anyone they knew who was skilled with computers. Finally we found a young Emirati man he said.
The young man who was still in university was able track the blackmailers email and get information about him said Maj Gen Al Mazeina.
We arrested him in his work place searched his home and took all his PCs so we could access the information and make sure he is the culprit he said.
The young man who helped Dubai Police track the blackmailer was offered a job with the police after completion of his studies abroad said Maj Gen Al Mazeina.
Since that day Dubai Police has been attracting talented Emiratis and also training and sending them abroad to further their education to be one step ahead of cyber criminals. Today we can say that per cent of people working on cybercrime cases are Emiratis Maj Gen Al Mazeina said.
A recent cyber crime he said involved a gang that had stolen funds from a bank account and personal information from banks and used the information to get replacement SIM cards for mobile numbers linked to the accounts and then transferred large sums of money out of those accounts.
People arrested in connection with the case included those who worked at the bank and with telecommunication providers.
The crime took place in January this year the gang was targeting banks all over the country and in Dubai such cases were reported.
The gang consisted of nine Asians six were arrested in the UAE and three abroad. Four of them were employed with banks and telecommunication providers.
In one of the reports Dubai Police received a man lost Dh from his companys accounts the funds being transferred Dh at a time to fake or abandoned accounts.
The man realised what had happened when he was checking his accounts at the end of the month. The bank could not help him because the transaction was legally conducted. The culprits had access to the mans mobile number so that they could authorise the transactions carried out at the bank.
To prevent people from falling prey to such scams and cyber crimes Maj Gen Al Mazeina called for greater awareness to be created.
In light of these crimes new provisions have been added which allow banks to file a case on behalf of their customers if the latter suspect that their account has been broken into.
Good job done by the authorities to clamp down on beggars. However whatabout people who are not co. 
Hussain you are great man. There are so much good people in Pakistan. Ilove Pakistani brothers for. 
GulfNews.com is the most widely read newspaper and online site in English in the Middle East. With a daily BPA audited paid circulation of over and an online audience of . million uniques every month it is your go to source for information on the region. Sign up below to begin personalising your experience
The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on th August under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri.The Shillong Times celebrated its Golden Jubliee through a memorable yearlong celebration held in ShillongTuraGuwahati and Delhi during .In June a Bengali Daily Sangbad Lahari published from Guwahati was added to the family of Shillong Times.
Subscribe to NELive WhatsApp News Alert by sending Start to via WhatsApp
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse this site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more.X
In Digital Business today with traditional barriers falling away trust in every entity on your network becomes crucial. Cyberthreats are at an alltime high and all cyberthreats are fundamentally an attack on identity whether that be an individual a device or an application. All need to be strongly identified and differentiated in in terms of privilege and permissions. 
We are delighted to announce the winners of this years SC Awards Europe . Hosted by Mark Watson at Old Billingsgate it was a evening of glitz and glamour on the Thames in the heart of the City of London. Make sure to enter next year for a chance to join us at the event
Any time youre looking to strengthen andor upgrade your inline security infrastructure you have the perfect opportunity to also upgrade your security fabric. Even new security tools cant do their job if your network is compromised by device failures packets are dropped or tools are overwhelmed. You need an inline security fabric designed to minimise downtime and maximise detection of cyberthreats.
New statistics being released today by the ONS are expected to confirm that cybercrime has become the largest recorded offence in the UK
Cybercrime is set to become the UKs most common offence with the release today of new figures from the Office of National Statistics ONS.
Cybercrimes were previously excluded from official statistics but with their addition in this latest tranche of crime numbers they are set to outpace any other kind of crime in the UK and signal that crime hasnt really been going down over recent years its simply been moving online.
The Crime Survey of England and Wales based on interviews withtens of thousands of people andreleased earlier this year estimated that there had been . million offences in the previous year ending in March . But ONS stats in the past have estimated that there are several million cybercrimes in the UK carving out cybercrime as making up the most significant proportion of UK crime. 
The addition of these figures to official statistics will not bode well for government claims about getting tough on crime pushing the number of offences up by what many believe will be several million. Their addition is however necessary according to several industry commentators speakngto SCMagazineUK.com. 
Whether it was included in the statistics or not cybercrime has become increasingly expensive for the UK as various law enforcement bodies have noted. The National Crime Agency released its National Strategic Assessment earlier this year noted that losses from such crime exceed billion pounds annually already making up a significant proportion of what the UK loses from organised crime.
Senior police officers have warned that as cybercrime has grown in popularity as the racket of choice for criminals formerly violent offenders have increasingly turned to cybercrimeas a lowrisk way or perpetrating lucrative criminal acts. 
Earlierthis year Adrian Leppard Commissioner of the City of London Police told the Telegraph that around a quarter of organised crime groups in the UK are involved in financial crime. A report on UK crime statistics from the University of Cambridge released at the same time showed that six out of ten cybercriminals had a record completely unrelated to cybercrime showing that those traditional offenders are changing their behaviour and moving to the internet.
This news comes just days after UK law enforcement bodies announced they are hunting the perpetrators of a series of online heists from UK bank accounts using Dridex malware that have resulted in losses of at least million.
The European Parliament has passed this morning the new network and information security NIS directive placing minimum standards for cybersecurity on critical infrastructure operators.
BT customers are complaining about chronic authentication issues that are blocking access to email and billing accounts. To expedite things the help desk is asking for clients full passwords according .
The healthcare sector has once again won the dubious distinction of the leakiest industry as the Information Commissioners Office releases data covering breaches reported in the final quarter of .
SC Magazine arms information security professionals with the indepth unbiased business and technical information they need to tackle the countless security challenges they face and establish risk management and compliance postures that underpin overall business strategies.
You are banned from this site. Please contact via a different client configuration if you believe that this is a mistake.
The owner of this website www.theeastafrican.co.ke has banned your access based on your browsers signature beaddua.
The Pentagon has concluded that computer sabotage coming from another country can constitute an act of war a finding that for the first time opens the door for the U.S. to respond using traditional military force.
In a bit of cyber jujitsu thieves are using laptops to access the advanced electronics in newer model cars and bypass ignition controls making off with the vehicles. 
The electric grids increasing connectivity has created a more extensive attack surface for hackers looking to exert control or create damage the Manhattan Institute warns. Cybersecurity has simply not been a priority says Mark Mills a senior fellow at the institute.
The attack on the Democratic National Committees computer network this past spring was part of a broader monthslong campaign by Russian hackers against groups with ties to U.S. politics according to a new cybersecurity report. 
A university study that focused on the practices of healthcare workers showed just how vulnerable the industry is to cyberattacks due to information security policies that lag behind clinical practice.
Cybersecurity has simply not been a priority said Mark Mills a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and author of a forthcoming paper about the growing vulnerability of U.S. electric grids.
Speaking before the Senate Banking Committee Tuesday Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said cybersecurity is a focus of the central banks oversight of the banking sector from setting security standards to supervising financial institutions ability to address threats.
Chinese hacking of corporate and government networks in the U.S. and other countries appears to be declining according to computersecurity experts at companies hired to investigate these breaches. 
Nicole Eagan CEO of the cybersecurity company Darktrace on what the human immune system can teach us about protecting our data.
A survey of around lawyers inhouse counsel and corporate Clevel executives worldwide found of private practice lawyers have clients who in the last five years have not been paid the full value of a successful litigation or arbitration judgment or award.
A federal appeals court affirmed the computerhacking conviction of a former executive at a recruiting firm accused of using a shared password to steal headhunting leads from the companys internal network.
North Korean hackers stole wing designs for a U.S. jet fighter and photos of parts of spy planes from a South Korean company according to authorities in Seoul the latest in a series of alleged cyberattacks by Pyongyang. 
The Democratic National Committees computer systems were breached by hackers linked to the Russian government party officials said.
Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen referred to the new security procedures during her testimony to the House Financial Services Committee. 
The Hard Rock Hotel Casino in Las Vegas said Monday that customer paymentcard data was accessed after malware was placed on the resorts paymentcard system becoming the latest hotel to report such a breach.
The role of CIO more tightly integrated than ever into the business is drawing from a broader pool of candidates many of whom do not come from the IT departments that bred so many of their predecessors. Eli Lilly this week named Aarti Shah a year veteran at the drug company as its CIO.
Losses from cyberattacks are particularly steep in Asia because regulations on cybersecurity and disclosure lag those in the West but some regulators are now tightening data protection policies. 
The rise of Ethereum reflects a much broader acceptance of open software which is changing the way corporations big banks among them think about emerging technology.
Even as U.S. and European regulators jointly pursue ways to fend off cyberattacks against aviation they are increasingly focused on devising standards to ensure that any successful hackers will be detected and neutralized. 
Cyberattacks on Russian banks are following similar trends as those in the U.S. according to Herbert Moos finance chief of Russian statecontrolled bank VTB Group.
Content engaging our readers now with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises page views Facebook Twitter email shares and comments.
Sign up now to get free exclusive access to reports research and invitation only events.
Symantec has announced its ambition for all websites to be protected by SSL encryption within two years. The cybersecurity giants Encryption Everywhere drive will encrypt per cent of all sites by .
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commissions ACCC Targeting Scams Report found in total more than million was lost to scams in .
IT security firm BAE Systems has profiled six types of cybercriminals that it says represent the biggest threats to Australian organisations in the lead up to the governments cyber security review.
Global Internet advertising revenues will approach US billion by the year making it a lucrative business but also attractive to cyber criminals according to Cisco. 
Most malware is mundane but these innovative techniques are exploiting systems and networks of even the savviest users
Most malware is mundane but these innovative techniques are exploiting systems and networks of even the savviest users
Security pros and government officials warn of a possible cyber involving banks utilities other companies or the Internet
If you travel to China or Russia assume government or industry spooks will steal your data and install spyware. Heres how to thwart them
WiFi may be the networking method of choice among apartment blocks cropping up in increased numbers in Australias major cities however increased reliance on wireless internet is resulting in more security risks according to Layer Consulting.
Organised criminals are using new tactics to put a new face on old crimes and with overwhelming success. Better analysis of network data is emerging as a powerful defence helping Australian companies to harness the power of analytics to detect breaches early and minimize their exposure.
International Police Association IPA member Michael Bakerattended the Cyber Crime crime seminar in September along with serving officers from Denmark England Holland Ireland Switzerland and Wales. The objective of the seminar was to outline the current position regarding cybercrime how it is perpetrated and what can be done to police it. He speaks to Web News about his experience.
Outside the classroom there was a lively social atmosphere. Delegates would meet socially and discuss the lectures in a more relaxed atmosphere. On this occasion there was a second seminar on child care running and delegates from both enjoyed the opportunity to mingle and share notes.
Meeting police officers from across Europe was definitely one of the key features of the course as there were constant conversations between them about their personal experiences. Some of the delegates were involved in the computer forensic field in their own forces and this made for searching questions being asked of the lecturers.
This was my first visit to Gimborn. I attended to learn more about this growing area of criminal activity.
I was really impressed with the content and organisation of the seminar. There was an atmosphere of friendly learning and an eagerness on the part of the delegates to learn from each other. There was more to this seminar than I could possibly do justice to in this short report. I will certainly be keeping an eye on future seminars and returning as soon as possible
Michael is a retired police officer barrister. Seminars at Gimborn are open and of interest to retired police personnel not just Serving. To find out more information about Gimborn click the image above. 
For more information on what cookies are and how you can manage and remove them click here.
The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on th August under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri.The Shillong Times celebrated its Golden Jubliee through a memorable yearlong celebration held in ShillongTuraGuwahati and Delhi during .In June a Bengali Daily Sangbad Lahari published from Guwahati was added to the family of Shillong Times.
Subscribe to NELive WhatsApp News Alert by sending Start to via WhatsApp
The Silk Road has lost more than . million in Bitcoins and the community is scrambling to find someone to take the blame.
The Cryptolocker virus was too restrictive and often left money on the table the eventual fix is among the most cynical and cutthroat moves in the history of cybercrime.
Subscribe Today to get the latest ExtremeTech news delivered right to your inbox.
Bangladesh Bank officials say the Federal Reserve Bank of New York failed to stop hackers from stealing million that it deposited with the bank but the Fed says theres no evidence of a hack.
Canada has had a spotty record on this front so far with government departments frequently finding themselves the victims of phishing and malware schemes.
A Canadian man says that he paid to have his personal data erased from the site and was shocked when the hacking group known as the Impact Team released his data.
The hackers released a manifesto threatening to release the personal info of users if the site isnt taken down calling its customers dirtbags who deserve no such discretion.
Former agent Carl Force crossed the line from enforcing the law to breaking it said US Justice Department attorney.
A DEA agent and a Secret Service operative involved in the investigation into the dark web site were charged with wire fraud and laundering hundreds of thousands of dollars in bitcoin.
Ulbricht is charged with several crimes for founding and earning millions from the operation of a site dubbed Amazon.com for drugs by US authorities.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse this site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more.X
In Digital Business today with traditional barriers falling away trust in every entity on your network becomes crucial. Cyberthreats are at an alltime high and all cyberthreats are fundamentally an attack on identity whether that be an individual a device or an application. All need to be strongly identified and differentiated in in terms of privilege and permissions. 
We are delighted to announce the winners of this years SC Awards Europe . Hosted by Mark Watson at Old Billingsgate it was a evening of glitz and glamour on the Thames in the heart of the City of London. Make sure to enter next year for a chance to join us at the event
Any time youre looking to strengthen andor upgrade your inline security infrastructure you have the perfect opportunity to also upgrade your security fabric. Even new security tools cant do their job if your network is compromised by device failures packets are dropped or tools are overwhelmed. You need an inline security fabric designed to minimise downtime and maximise detection of cyberthreats.
New statistics being released today by the ONS are expected to confirm that cybercrime has become the largest recorded offence in the UK
Cybercrime is set to become the UKs most common offence with the release today of new figures from the Office of National Statistics ONS.
Cybercrimes were previously excluded from official statistics but with their addition in this latest tranche of crime numbers they are set to outpace any other kind of crime in the UK and signal that crime hasnt really been going down over recent years its simply been moving online.
The Crime Survey of England and Wales based on interviews withtens of thousands of people andreleased earlier this year estimated that there had been . million offences in the previous year ending in March . But ONS stats in the past have estimated that there are several million cybercrimes in the UK carving out cybercrime as making up the most significant proportion of UK crime. 
The addition of these figures to official statistics will not bode well for government claims about getting tough on crime pushing the number of offences up by what many believe will be several million. Their addition is however necessary according to several industry commentators speakngto SCMagazineUK.com. 
Whether it was included in the statistics or not cybercrime has become increasingly expensive for the UK as various law enforcement bodies have noted. The National Crime Agency released its National Strategic Assessment earlier this year noted that losses from such crime exceed billion pounds annually already making up a significant proportion of what the UK loses from organised crime.
Senior police officers have warned that as cybercrime has grown in popularity as the racket of choice for criminals formerly violent offenders have increasingly turned to cybercrimeas a lowrisk way or perpetrating lucrative criminal acts. 
Earlierthis year Adrian Leppard Commissioner of the City of London Police told the Telegraph that around a quarter of organised crime groups in the UK are involved in financial crime. A report on UK crime statistics from the University of Cambridge released at the same time showed that six out of ten cybercriminals had a record completely unrelated to cybercrime showing that those traditional offenders are changing their behaviour and moving to the internet.
This news comes just days after UK law enforcement bodies announced they are hunting the perpetrators of a series of online heists from UK bank accounts using Dridex malware that have resulted in losses of at least million.
The European Parliament has passed this morning the new network and information security NIS directive placing minimum standards for cybersecurity on critical infrastructure operators.
BT customers are complaining about chronic authentication issues that are blocking access to email and billing accounts. To expedite things the help desk is asking for clients full passwords according .
The healthcare sector has once again won the dubious distinction of the leakiest industry as the Information Commissioners Office releases data covering breaches reported in the final quarter of .
SC Magazine arms information security professionals with the indepth unbiased business and technical information they need to tackle the countless security challenges they face and establish risk management and compliance postures that underpin overall business strategies.
Global instant boundless unprecedented these are words that are commonly used to describe the opportunities of the cyber world. They could also be used to describe the risks that arise alongside those opportunities. Cyber risks are faced not just by ecommerce companies those doing transactions over the internet any company reliant on computer networks digital information or the internet faces these exposures. This means just about every size of business in the world today.
Make a Claim News Careers Client Service Agreement Privacy Cookies Policy Sitemap
Ryburn Suitest Floor No WarehouseCanal BasinSowerby BridgeW YorkshireHX AGMap
Pretoria The South African Bank Risk Information Centre Sabric has warned bank customers to pay more attention to their mobile security.
With the increase in cyber crime the organisation has warned that customers are increasingly at risk of falling prey to criminal activities. Sabric chief executive Kalayani Pillay said managing and protecting electronic devices such as cellphones tablets and PCs is crucial in ensuring that the scourge of cyber crime is minimised.
Speaking to the media and banking representatives at the organisations offices in Midrand on Thursday Pillay said online banking fraud was increasing due to phishing and malware attacks in the country. Cyber crime costs South Africa around Rbillion a year.
South Africa is one of the top targets for cyber crime in Africa due to its comparatively high levels of internet connectivity resulting in a larger attack surface than many other nations on the African continent said Pillay.
The countrys wealth and particularly its high GDP per capita compared to that of other nations in subSaharan Africa made it attractive to cyber criminals she said.
Online banking fraud increased especially because of the high levels of phishing and malware attacks targeting bank customers. Spear phishing targeting executives and senior management within corporates in order to facilitate the movement of large sums of money is prevalent said Pillay.
Banks continuously provided cyber security messages but criminals were devising new ways to steal from customers she said.
As more bank consumers migrate to online banking platforms the risk is that smartphones and handheld devices are being compromised said Pillay.
Sabric was working closely with law enforcement agencies to ensure a holistic approach to fighting these crimes is adopted.
Meanwhile Pillay also said Sabric had started a campaign titled Skelm to promote the notion of safety on the internet and to prevent banking fraud.
The campaign will provide various platforms on social media for the public to share their own experiences of being scammed in order to empower one another Pillay said.
Consumers must be aware of these risks and take steps to safeguard themselves.
The campaign was also aimed at creating an awareness about the implications of lack of cyber security and to reduce banking crime in South Africa through awareness.
Secure your smartphone by enabling the lock screen and use a pattern password or fingerprint screen lock.
Where possible dont save any sensitive information and bank account details on your electronic devices.
We tweet we retweet we update status messages share videos with friends make purchases and payments and download entertainment. Most of us spend considerable time online making the virtual world a bigger platform than our real lives.
We tweet we retweet we update status messages share videos with friends make purchases and payments and download entertainment. Most of us spend considerable time online making the virtual world a bigger platform than our real lives.
And though we realize that this burgeoning world has potential threats we hardly do anything about it.
And a cyber crime report released by Symantec seconds this fact. The report revealed that percent of internet users in India have experienced some form of cyber crime versus percent globally. Fiftyseven percent of people in India believe that cyber criminals would never be brought to justice and percent feel angry percent feel cheated and percent feel guilty.
Another reason for staying mum about cyber crime is the fact that its harder to get yourself heard in India and even if you are it doesnt account for much. Globally it would cost a victim about Rs to resolve the issue and procedures could stretch to days. In India resolving a similar issue would take almost Rs and about days. The truth is that almost percent of the crimes reported in India never get resolved versus percent globally.
The old adage prevention is better than cure has never sounded more apt. Unless you get as serious as the criminals.
The agency advised customers to update their antivirus software using two patches issued by Symantec.
The company behind the Ashley Madison website is trying to recover from last years data breach
New ploy and plea to upgrade interrupts users as they unlock their Windows and . PCs
How Russias oldest bank found itself on the leading edge of inmemory computing
Reproduction in whole or part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Media Pvt. Ltd is prohibited.
The owner of this website www.cybercrimecomplaints.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebcddua.
The city police will intensify its efforts in creating awareness on cyber crimes and cyber security among girl students.
City Police Commissioner A. Amalraj told this to reporters here on Monday at the wake of incidents of young women falling prey to morphing and related offences. Under the Know your police project of the city police schoolchildren who come to the city police office will be taken to the cyber crime unit and experts would elaborate them on the dos and donts to stay safe while using internet Mr. Amalraj said.
He added that in a bid to strengthen the cyber crime unit they will soon identify department personnel who are technically sound and are interested in working in cyber crimes.
The city police said that the double murder at Chinniyampalayam on Saturday night could have been committed by one person and not by three as suspected by them earlier.
S. Karthikeyan of Bethel Nagar in SIHS Colony near Singanallur and his goods autorickshaw driver R. Venugopal . 
The city police will intensify its efforts in creating awareness on cyber crimes and cyber security among girl students.
City Police Commissioner A. Amalraj told this to reporters here on Monday at the wake of incidents of young women falling prey to morphing and related offences. Under the Know your police project of the city police schoolchildren who come to the city police office will be taken to the cyber crime unit and experts would elaborate them on the dos and donts to stay safe while using internet Mr. Amalraj said.
He added that in a bid to strengthen the cyber crime unit they will soon identify department personnel who are technically sound and are interested in working in cyber crimes.
The city police said that the double murder at Chinniyampalayam on Saturday night could have been committed by one person and not by three as suspected by them earlier.
S. Karthikeyan of Bethel Nagar in SIHS Colony near Singanallur and his goods autorickshaw driver R. Venugopal of Ramanujam Nagar were found murdered at RG Pudur off the Avinashi Road near Chinniyampalayam on Sunday morning.
Karthikeyan was running a backdrop decoration firm and the suspect Karupasamy from Trichy was an exemployee of the firm. 
This website uses cookies to improve the usability of the site. By continuing to browse our site you agree to our use of cookies. To find out more about the cookies we use or to disable any cookies visit our cookies page.
POLICE are analysing results of the biggestever cyber crime survey to see how badly the Isle of Wight is affected.
There were responses from across the region and early analysis indicates nearly one in six residents in the southeast were cyber crime victims in the last months.
The data reveals that per cent of people have experienced some form of attempted cyber crime in the last months with per cent reporting that they had subsequently become a victim.
My recent substantial investment in the development of the Forensic Innovation Centre in Portsmouth and . million in a specialist Cyber Crime Unit here in Hampshire is putting our region at the forefront of the fight against this growing threat to both private individuals and businesses.
By ticking Remember me you agree to a cookie being stored on your computer no personal data is shared.
Any views or opinions presented in the comments above are solely those of the author and do not represent those of the Isle of Wight County Press.
IWCP v. Isle of Wight County Press . All Rights Reserved. Web Design By Matrix Create. 
Strengthening the security and resilience of cyberspace has become an important homeland security mission.
Todays world is more interconnected than ever before. Yet for all its advantages increased connectivity brings increased risk of theft fraud and abuse.
DHS works with each federal civilian department and agency to effectively respond to everchanging threats against their networks.
DHS draws on the Nations full range of expertise and resources to secure critical infrastructure from cyber threats.
DHS provides assistance to potentially impacted entities analyzes the potential impact across critical infrastructure investigates those responsible in conjunction with law enforcement partners and coordinates the national response to significant cyber incidents.
Protects businesses and individuals from Internetbased risks and from risks relating to information technology infrastructure and activities.
Information sharing is essential to the protection of critical infrastructure and to furthering cybersecurity for the nation.
Every time we connect to the Internet we make decisions that affect our cybersecurity.
America needs well trained professionals working in cybersecurity roles. These professionals are critical in both private industry and the government for the security of individuals and the nation. The Department of Homeland Security DHS is committed to strengthening the nations cybersecurity workforce through standardizing roles and helping to ensure we have welltrained cybersecurity workers today as well as a strong pipeline of future cybersecurity leaders of tomorrow.
The demand for an experienced and qualified workforce to protect our Nations networks and information systems has never been higher.
DHS empowers its cybersecurity programs to succeed by integrating privacy protections from the outset.
DHS continues to research and develop new innovative solutions to complex cybersecurity problems.
Information on implementation of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of and DHSs Automated Indicator Sharing AIS initiative.
The owner of this website caymannewsservice.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebdcua.
Reports of alleged computer crime have been a hot news item of late. Especially alarming is the realization that many of the masterminds behind these criminal acts are mere kids. In fact children no longer need to be highly skilled in order to execute cyber crimes. Hacker tools are easily available on the Net and once downloaded can be used by even novice computer users. This greatly expands the population of possible wrongdoers. Children and in some cases their parents often think that shutting down or defacing Web sites or releasing network viruses are amusing pranks. Kids might not even realize that what they are doing is illegal. Still other kids might find themselves hanging out online with skilled hackers who share hacking tools with them and encourage them to do inappropriate things online. Unfortunately some of these kids dont realize that they are committing crimes until it is too late. Even more distressing and difficult to combat is the fact that some in the media portray the computer criminal as a modern day Robin Hood. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
So what are cyber crimes Can the law enforcement authorities find criminals online How can you create context for your children to understand what cyber crimes are The following information and areas throughout the site will help familiarize you with unethical and illegal online behavior. Additionally to learn more about cyber crime visit the Department of Justice Computer Crime Intellectual Property Sections website at www.cybercrime.gov. The Computer Emergency Response Team CERT at www.cert.org and the National Infrastructure Protection Center at the FBI at www.infragard.net provides regularly updated information and descriptions of cyber crimes.
Acting Essex County Prosecutor Robert D. Laurino announced today the establishment of a Cyber Crimes Unit which will specialize in investigating child pornography cyber stalking cyber bullying computer fraud and the use of the Internet and other hightechnology in perpetrating crimes.
Cyber crime touches every kind of crime said Laurino. Whether we are dealing with homicides rapes domestic violence drug cases online predators child pornography or cyber stalking technology is often the key to effective crime fighting in the st Century.
The unit will focus on solving traditional crimes using computer forensics along with the new spectrum of computerrelated crimes said Laurino. 
In addition the unit will educate parents teachers and others in the community about cyber crime.
Many parents are very concerned about their children being the victims of cyber crimes. We hope to provide them with information to help them better understand the new technologies and to better protect their children from things like cyber bullying or online predators Laurino said.
According to Laurino the work of the unit requires forging and sustaining strong partnerships with federal state and local law enforcement because often these crimes cross borders. Understanding the importance of those relationships the ECPO Cyber Crime Unit will work closely with the FBI and the New Jersey Regional Computer Forensic Laboratory in Hamilton Township.
In addition every law enforcement agency in Essex County will be asked to designate an officer to work with the ECPO Cyber Crime Unit. That officer will remain with the local police department but will receive special training to deal with cyber crimes in their own communities.
Two investigators and an assistant prosecutor who already work in the ECPO have been reassigned to the newly created Cyber Crime Unit. Assistant Prosecutor Deborah Freier Detective Lieutenant Richard Gould and Detective Michele Bolan will make up the unit. All three have been working in related areas.
Gould a recognized expert on cyber crime is certified by the FBI to perform forensic examinations on cell phones PDAs and computers. This year he was recognized by the FBI as being the most proficient cell phone examiner in the nation.
Bolans previous assignments included tours of duty in the Special Victims Unit Domestic Violence Unit and Megans Law Unit as well as a special assignment with the U.S. Customs Service. She was formerly assigned to the New Jersey State Polices Internet Crimes Against Children ICAC Task Force. 
Freier who previously worked in the Child Abuse Unit has used cyber investigations to prosecute online predators sex offenders and others. She said much of the work of the Cyber Crime Unit will initially focus on child pornography. 
Gould points out that many of the pornographic images recovered involve children who are younger than five years old. 
The idea of a cyber crime unit has been on the drawing board for a long time said Laurino. I am extremely pleased that we are able to now make it a reality.
Acting Essex County Prosecutor Robert D. Laurino announced today the establishment of a Cyber Crimes Unit which will specialize in investigating child pornography cyber stalking cyber bullying computer fraud and the use of the Internet and other hightechnology in perpetrating crimes.
Cyber crime touches every kind of crime said Laurino. Whether we are dealing with homicides rapes domestic violence drug cases online predators child pornography or cyber stalking technology is often the key to effective crime fighting in the st Century.
The unit will focus on solving traditional crimes using computer forensics along with the new spectrum of computerrelated crimes said Laurino. 
In addition the unit will educate parents teachers and others in the community about cyber crime.
Many parents are very concerned about their children being the victims of cyber crimes. We hope to provide them with information to help them better understand the new technologies and to better protect their children from things like cyber bullying or online predators Laurino said.
According to Laurino the work of the unit requires forging and sustaining strong partnerships with federal state and local law enforcement because often these crimes cross borders. Understanding the importance of those relationships the ECPO Cyber Crime Unit will work closely with the FBI and the New Jersey Regional Computer Forensic Laboratory in Hamilton Township.
In addition every law enforcement agency in Essex County will be asked to designate an officer to work with the ECPO Cyber Crime Unit. That officer will remain with the local police department but will receive special training to deal with cyber crimes in their own communities.
Two investigators and an assistant prosecutor who already work in the ECPO have been reassigned to the newly created Cyber Crime Unit. Assistant Prosecutor Deborah Freier Detective Lieutenant Richard Gould and Detective Michele Bolan will make up the unit. All three have been working in related areas.
Gould a recognized expert on cyber crime is certified by the FBI to perform forensic examinations on cell phones PDAs and computers. This year he was recognized by the FBI as being the most proficient cell phone examiner in the nation.
Bolans previous assignments included tours of duty in the Special Victims Unit Domestic Violence Unit and Megans Law Unit as well as a special assignment with the U.S. Customs Service. She was formerly assigned to the New Jersey State Polices Internet Crimes Against Children ICAC Task Force. 
Freier who previously worked in the Child Abuse Unit has used cyber investigations to prosecute online predators sex offenders and others. She said much of the work of the Cyber Crime Unit will initially focus on child pornography. 
Gould points out that many of the pornographic images recovered involve children who are younger than five years old. 
The idea of a cyber crime unit has been on the drawing board for a long time said Laurino. I am extremely pleased that we are able to now make it a reality.
If your computer is locked and you are seeing a Your computer has been blocked notification from Department of Homeland Securitys ICE Cyber Crime Center then your computer is infected with a piece of malware known as Trojan Reveton.
The ICE Cyber Crime Center virus is distributed through several means. Malicious websites or legitimate websites that have been hacked can infect your machine through exploit kits that use vulnerabilities on your computer to install this trojan without your permission of knowledge.Another method used to propagate this type of malware is spam email containing infected attachments or links to malicious websites. Cybercriminals spam out an email with forged header information tricking you into believing that it is from a shipping company like DHL or FedEx. The email tells you that they tried to deliver a package to you but failed for some reason. Sometimes the emails claim to be notifications of a shipment you have made. Either way you cant resist being curious as to what the email is referring to and open the attached file or click on a link embedded inside the email. And with that your computer is infected with the ICE Cyber Crime Center virus.The threat may also be downloaded manually by tricking the user into thinking they are installing a useful piece of software for instance a bogus update for Adobe Flash Player or another piece of software.The ICE Cyber Crime Center virus is also prevalent on peertopeer file sharing websites and is often packaged with pirated or illegally acquired software.
Once installed on your computer the ICE Cyber Crime Center virus will display a bogus notificationthat pretends to be from Department of Homeland Securitys ICE Cyber Crime Center and states that your computer has been blocked due to it being involved with the distribution of pornographic material SPAM and copyrighted content.
The ICE Cyber Crime Center virus will lock you out of your computer and applications so whenever youll try to log on into your Windows operating system or Safe Mode with Networking it will display instead a lock screen asking you to pay a nonexisting fine of USDin the form of a Moneypak voucher.Furthermore to make this alert seem more authentic this virus also has the ability to access your installed webcam so that the bogus ICE Cyber Crime Centernotification shows what is happening in the room.
The ICE Cyber Crime Center virus locks the computer and depending on the users current location displays a localized webpage that covers the entire desktop of the infected computer and demands payment for the supposed possession of illicit material.
Cyber criminals often updated the design of this lock screen however you should always keep in mind that ICE Cyber Crime Center will never lock down your computer or monitor your online activities.
The message displayed by the threat can be localized depending on the users location with text written in the appropriate language.
The work of your computer has been suspended on the grounds of unauthorized cyber activity.
The use of distribution of pornographic files. A fine from up to USDThe use or distribution of pornographic files. A fine from up to USDVisiting the websites of terrorist groups. A fine from up to USDThe development or distribution of virus programs which have caused harm to other computers. A fine from to USDTo unlock your computer and to avoid other legal consequences you are obligated to pay a release fee of USD.An attempt to unlock this computer by yourself will lead to the full formatting of the operating system. All the files videos photos documents on your computer will be deleted.
The ICE Cyber Crime Center lock screen is a scam and you should ignore any alerts that this malicious software might generate.Under no circumstance should you send any Greendot Moneypak code to these cyber criminals and if you have you can should request a refund stating that you are the victim of a computer virus and scam.
This page is a comprehensive guide which will remove the ICE Cyber Crime Center infection from your your computer. Please perform all the steps in the correct order. If you have any questions or doubt at any point STOP and ask for our assistance.
System Restore helps you restore your computers system files to an earlier point in time. Its a way to undo system changes to your computer without affecting your personal files such as email documents or photos.Because the ICE Cyber Crime Center virus will not allow you to start the computer in Windows regular mode we will need to start System Restore from the Safe Mode with Command Prompt mode.
Malwarebytes AntiMalware Free uses industryleading technology to detect and remove all traces of malware including worms Trojans rootkits rogues dialers spyware and more.It is important to note that Malwarebytes AntiMalware works well and should run alongside antivirus software without conflicts.
HitmanPro is a second opinion scanner designed to rescue your computer from malware viruses trojans rootkits etc. that have infected your computer despite all the security measures you have taken such as anti virus software firewalls etc.. HitmanPro is designed to work alongside existing security programs without any conflicts. It scans the computer quickly less than minutes and does not slow down the computer.
If you cannot start your computer into Safe Mode with Command Prompt mode we can use the HitmanPro Kickstart program to bypass ICE Cyber Crime Center lock screen.As the ICE Cyber Crime Center ransomware infection locks you out of your computer you will need to create a bootable USB drive that contains the HitmanPro Kickstart program.We will then boot your computer using this bootable USB drive and use it to clean the infection so that you are able to access Windows normally again.You will also need a USB drive which will have all of its data erased and will then be formatted. Therefore only use a USB drive that does not contain any important data.
If any of the above methods did not clean your infected computer we can use a Kaspersky Rescue Disk Bootable to clean the Windows registry and to perform a system scan to remove the ICE Cyber Crime Center virus.
We really like the free versions of Malwarebytes and HitmanPro andwe love the Malwarebytes AntiMalware Premium and HitmanPro.Alert features.
If your current security solution allowed malware on your computer you may want to consider purchasing the fullfeatured version of Malwarebytes AntiMalware to protect against all types of threats in the future.
We recommend that you perform regular computer scans with HitmanPro to prevent infections.
If we have managed to help with your computer issues please share this page to help other peopleYou can share this article on FacebookTwitter or Google by using the below buttons.
If you would like help with any of these fixes you can ask for free malware removal support in the Malware Removal Assistance forum. In this support forum a trained staff member will help you cleanup your machine by using advanced tools. Never used a forum Learn how.
Because removing malware is a complex task the below comment section or our Facebook page arent the best places to ask for help.Our comment section is under moderation to prevent spam andor links to malicious content.
I am the creator and owner of MalwareTips. I am passionate about computer security and technology. I have an experience of years working as a security researcher.My area of expertise includes Malware Analysis and Computer Forensics. Im active in the various online antimalware communities where I do researches for new malware threats as they are released.
All our malware removal guides and programs are completely free and should remove all the malware from your machine.
Our malware removal guides may appear overwhelming due to the amount of the steps and numerous programs that are be used. We have only written them this way to provide clear detailed and easy to understand instructions that anyone can use to remove malware for free.
Please be aware that removing malware is a potentially hazardous undertaking. We advise you to backup your personal documents before you start the malware removal process.
We have more than . Likes on Facebook and almost . people are following us on Twitter.Follow us on Facebook Twitter or Google and always be uptodate with the latest online threats.
Keep your software uptodate. This is especially true for things like your operating system security software and Web browser but also holds true for just about any program that you frequently use. Viruses often take advantages of bugs or exploits in the code of these programs to propagate to new machines and while the companies that make the programs are usually quick to fix the holes those fixes only work if they have been downloaded to your computer. 
Its also important to avoid taking actions that could put your computer at risk. These include opening unsolicited email attachments visiting unknown websites or downloading software from untrustworthy websites or peertopeer file transfer networks. 
Malware short for malicious software is an umbrella term that refers to any software program deliberately created to perform an unauthorized and often harmful action.Viruses backdoors keyloggers spyware adware rootkits and trojans are just a few examples of what is considered malware.A few years agoit was once sufficient to call something a virus or trojan horse however todays infection methods and vectors evolved and the terms virus and trojan no longer provided a satisfactory definition for all the types of rogue programs that exist.
If youre being redirected from a site youre trying to visit seeing constant popup ads unwanted toolbars or strange search results your computer may be infected with malware.We offer free malware removal assistance to our members in the Malware Removal Assistance forum.
MalwareTips.com is an Independent Website. All trademarks mentioned on this page are the property of their respective owners.We can not be held responsible for any issues that may occur by using this information.
LONDON Cyber crime costs the global economy about billion every year with the damage to business from the theft of intellectual property exceeding the billion loss to individuals from hacking according to research published on Monday.
The report from the Center for Strategic and International Studies CSIS said cyber crime was a growth industry that damaged trade competitiveness and innovation. 
A conservative estimate would be billion in losses while the maximum could be as much as billion said the study sponsored by security software company McAfee.
Cyber crime is a tax on innovation and slows the pace of global innovation by reducing the rate of return to innovators and investors Jim Lewis of CSIS said in a statement.
The worlds biggest economies bore the brunt of the losses the research found with the toll on the United States China Japan and Germany reaching billion a year in total.
Losses connected to personal information such as stolen credit card data was put at up to billion.
About million people in the United States roughly percent of the population has had personal information stolen by hackers it said while highprofile breaches affected million people in Turkey million in Germany and more than million in China.
McAfee owned by Intel Corp said improved international collaboration was beginning to show results in reducing cyber crime for example in the takedown last week of a crime ring that infected hundreds of thousands of computers known by the name of its master software Gameover Zeus.
All quotes delayed a minimum of minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays. 
To combat increasing cases of cyber crime cases in the district Noida police is set to start its own specialised cyber lab with trained personnel.
Uttar Pradesh Police with technical support and help from National Association of Software and Service Companies NASSCOM has completed the construction of cyber lab behind the office of Superintendant of Police in Sector . The lab has been named as Centre for Excellence for Cyber Crime and Investigation.
In another days we will have cyber lab ready which will be equipped to crack technical offences like financial fraud cyber stalking debitcredit card fraud etc Senior Superintendent of Police Kiran S said.
The SSP emphasised on the training of cops for being a step ahead of cyber criminals. Earlier people were targeted by scamsters by making fraudulent calls posing as bank executive seeking creditdebit card details. Now these attacks have become sophisticated where instead of asking details they take gullible customers of IVRS system to appear genuine he said adding that criminals are getting smarter but cops should be a step ahead to crack it.
The most common crime in the district is phishing. Every month district police receives more than such complaints. Once functional the police will be able to train cops from the state and will also provide quick disposal in handling cyber crime cases.
var zflagnid var zflagcid var zflagsid var zflagwidth var zflagheight var zflagsz 
Hi Dont like ads Neither do we but they help us bring all this content to you absolutely free. Please whitelist us to continue reading and watching news from Indias most trusted news source.
Firefox Private Window runs its own version of adblock. You will receive an adblock detection screen on private window even if you are not running any adblock plugins. In this case you will need to open indiatoday.in on your standard Firefox window.
The ICE Cyber Crimes Center virus will lock you out of your computer and applications so whenever youll try to log on into your Windows operating system or Safe Mode with Networking it will display instead a lock screen asking you to pay a nonexisting fine of in the form of a MoneyPak code.Furthermore to make this alert seem more authentic this virus also has the ability to access your installed webcam so that the bogus ICE Cyber Crimes Center notification shows what is happening in the room.
Cyber criminals often updated the design of this lock screen however you should always keep in mind that the ICE will never lock down your computer or monitor your online activities.The message displayed by the threat can be localized depending on the users location with text written in the appropriate language. Depending on the variant the Trojan may only display a message in the language spoken by its authors or the country that was intended as the main target of the attack.
The work of your computer has been suspended on the grounds of the violation of the law of the United States of America.Imprisonment of the term of up to years The use or distribution of pornographic filesImprisonment for the term of up to years The use or sharing copyrighted filesThe first violation may not entail the criminal liability if the payment of the fine in connection with the law of loyalty to the people on January in repeated violations of the criminal responsibility is inevitable.To unlock your computer and to avoid other legal consequences you are obligated to pay a release fee of .. Look for a MoneyPak in the prepaid section. Take it to the cashier and load it with cash. A service fee of up to . will apply.. To pay fine you should enter the digits MoneyPak resulting code in the payment form and press Pay MoneyPak.In connection with the decision of the Government as of January all of the violations described above could be considered criminal. If the fine has not been paid you will become the subject of criminal prosecution. The fine is applicable only in the case of a primary violation. In the case of second violation you will appear before the Supreme Court of the USA.Amount of the fine is . Payment must be made within hours after the computer blocking. If the fine has not been paid you will become the subject of criminal prosecution without the right to pay the fine. The Department of the Fight Against Cyberactivity will confiscate your computer after hoursAn attempt to unlock the computer by yourself will lead to the full formatting of the operating system. All the files videos photos documents on your computer will be deleted.All illegal activities conducted through your computer have been recorded in the Police Database including photos and videos from your camera for further identification. You have been registered by viewing pornography involving minors.After paying the fine your computer will be unblocked. In the case of second violation you will become the subject of criminal prosecution without the right to pay the fine
The ICE Cyber Crimes Center notification is a scam and you should ignore any alert that this malicious software might generate.Under no circumstance should you send any money via MoneyPak to these cyber criminals as this could lead to identity theftand if you have you can request a refund from Greendot MoneyPak HERE stating that the payment was due to a scam and a computer virus. You can also file a complaint at www.IC.gov.
This page is a comprehensive guide which will remove the ICE Cyber Crime Center infection from your your computer. Please perform all the steps in the correct order. If you have any questions or doubt at any point STOP and ask for our assistance.
System Restore helps you restore your computers system files to an earlier point in time. Its a way to undo system changes to your computer without affecting your personal files such as email documents or photos.Because the ICE Cyber Crime Center virus will not allow you to start the computer in Windows regular mode we will need to start System Restore from the Safe Mode with Command Prompt mode.
If you cannot start your computer into Safe Mode with Command Prompt mode we can use the HitmanPro Kickstart program to bypass ICE Cyber Crime Center lock screen.As the ICE Cyber Crime Center ransomware infection locks you out of your computer you will need to create a bootable USB drive that contains the HitmanPro Kickstart program.We will then boot your computer using this bootable USB drive and use it to clean the infection so that you are able to access Windows normally again.You will also need a USB drive which will have all of its data erased and will then be formatted. Therefore only use a USB drive that does not contain any important data.
If any of the above methods did not clean your infected computer we can use a Kaspersky Rescue Disk Bootable to clean the Windows registry and to perform a system scan to remove the ICE Cyber Crime Center virus.
On some variants of this infection after removing the ICE Cyber Crime Center virus instead of loading your Windows desktop you may be shown a Windows with a black background called the Windows Command Prompt. If this happens we will need to run the below registry fix.
Your computer should now be free of the ICE Cyber Crime Center infection. If your current antivirus solution let this infection through you may want to consider purchasing the PRO version of Malwarebytes AntiMalware to protect against these types of threats in the future.If you are still experiencing problems while trying to remove ICE Cyber Crime Center Moneypak virus from your machine please start a new thread in our Malware Removal Assistance forum.
We really like the free versions of Malwarebytes and HitmanPro andwe love the Malwarebytes AntiMalware Premium and HitmanPro.Alert features.
If your current security solution allowed malware on your computer you may want to consider purchasing the fullfeatured version of Malwarebytes AntiMalware to protect against all types of threats in the future.
We recommend that you perform regular computer scans with HitmanPro to prevent infections.
If we have managed to help with your computer issues please share this page to help other peopleYou can share this article on FacebookTwitter or Google by using the below buttons.
If you would like help with any of these fixes you can ask for free malware removal support in the Malware Removal Assistance forum. In this support forum a trained staff member will help you cleanup your machine by using advanced tools. Never used a forum Learn how.
Because removing malware is a complex task the below comment section or our Facebook page arent the best places to ask for help.Our comment section is under moderation to prevent spam andor links to malicious content.
I am the creator and owner of MalwareTips. I am passionate about computer security and technology. I have an experience of years working as a security researcher.My area of expertise includes Malware Analysis and Computer Forensics. Im active in the various online antimalware communities where I do researches for new malware threats as they are released.
All our malware removal guides and programs are completely free and should remove all the malware from your machine.
Our malware removal guides may appear overwhelming due to the amount of the steps and numerous programs that are be used. We have only written them this way to provide clear detailed and easy to understand instructions that anyone can use to remove malware for free.
Please be aware that removing malware is a potentially hazardous undertaking. We advise you to backup your personal documents before you start the malware removal process.
We have more than . Likes on Facebook and almost . people are following us on Twitter.Follow us on Facebook Twitter or Google and always be uptodate with the latest online threats.
Keep your software uptodate. This is especially true for things like your operating system security software and Web browser but also holds true for just about any program that you frequently use. Viruses often take advantages of bugs or exploits in the code of these programs to propagate to new machines and while the companies that make the programs are usually quick to fix the holes those fixes only work if they have been downloaded to your computer. 
Its also important to avoid taking actions that could put your computer at risk. These include opening unsolicited email attachments visiting unknown websites or downloading software from untrustworthy websites or peertopeer file transfer networks. 
Malware short for malicious software is an umbrella term that refers to any software program deliberately created to perform an unauthorized and often harmful action.Viruses backdoors keyloggers spyware adware rootkits and trojans are just a few examples of what is considered malware.A few years agoit was once sufficient to call something a virus or trojan horse however todays infection methods and vectors evolved and the terms virus and trojan no longer provided a satisfactory definition for all the types of rogue programs that exist.
If youre being redirected from a site youre trying to visit seeing constant popup ads unwanted toolbars or strange search results your computer may be infected with malware.We offer free malware removal assistance to our members in the Malware Removal Assistance forum.
MalwareTips.com is an Independent Website. All trademarks mentioned on this page are the property of their respective owners.We can not be held responsible for any issues that may occur by using this information.
The Panama Papers leak is a warning to New Zealand businesses to protect themselves from cyber hacking Prime Minister John Key says.
Mr Key announced today a million fund that will go towards setting up a national security agency aimed at protecting businesses and infrastructure from online attacks.
The Computer Emergency Response Team CERT was first announced in December and will be included in this years budget.
million will go towards the agencys operating funds over the next four years with . in new capital.
Speaking at the Cyber Security Summit in Auckland this morning Mr Key said New Zealanders needed to start taking the threat of cyber attacks seriously.
This is real its happening and there are people sitting out there who just want to make mischief and want to get access to that information.
He said hackers present a real threat to the government to businesses and to NGOs.
If were going to do our jobs properly we better start realising that weve got to take this issue seriously.
Mr Key said it wasnt just up to the government to take action and directors and chief executives of businesses need to get on board.
But we are through the CERT and through all of the other work that GCSB and the police and others do quite willing to work with you and help you and provide the best technology that we can.
He said the massive information leak from the Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca which revealed global tax avoidance practices is proof no company was safe from hacking.
Whatever the rights and wrongs of whatever business they do these people have sat there thinking theyre dealing with their clients on a confidential basis.
You might be a doctor thats dealt with sexually transmitted diseases and that information is confidential to that person then all of a sudden that information is in the public domain.
Microsoft vice president of security Matt Thomlinson said there was no shortage of malicious actors on the internet and the consequences go beyond just business interests.
The worst case scenarios here are alarming because we do have things like critical infrastructure and governments supplying services over the internet.
Taking down a router its not clear if that just takes down a business down the street or it takes down a hospital.
The Center for Strategic and International Studies CSIS vice president and program director Jim Lewis said New Zealand had a good strategy for tackling cyber security but that needed to also be well resourced.
New Zealand has put in place many of the elements of a successful strategy and you have identified many of the things you have to work on to make that strategy work.
The real test is in implementation and the real test is in political commitment.
He said New Zealand faced real threats and its businesses were at risk but that risk was manageable if action was taken.
The new agency will be a partnership between the government nongovernment agencies and the private sector.
The most recent Internet Security Threat Report from Symantec found the number of cyberattacks in New Zealand had grown by percent in the past year about attacks per day.
To combat increasing cases of cyber crime cases in the district Noida police is set to start its own specialised cyber lab with trained personnel.
Uttar Pradesh Police with technical support and help from National Association of Software and Service Companies NASSCOM has completed the construction of cyber lab behind the office of Superintendant of Police in Sector . The lab has been named as Centre for Excellence for Cyber Crime and Investigation.
In another days we will have cyber lab ready which will be equipped to crack technical offences like financial fraud cyber stalking debitcredit card fraud etc Senior Superintendent of Police Kiran S said.
The SSP emphasised on the training of cops for being a step ahead of cyber criminals. Earlier people were targeted by scamsters by making fraudulent calls posing as bank executive seeking creditdebit card details. Now these attacks have become sophisticated where instead of asking details they take gullible customers of IVRS system to appear genuine he said adding that criminals are getting smarter but cops should be a step ahead to crack it.
The most common crime in the district is phishing. Every month district police receives more than such complaints. Once functional the police will be able to train cops from the state and will also provide quick disposal in handling cyber crime cases.
var zflagnid var zflagcid var zflagsid var zflagwidth var zflagheight var zflagsz 
Hi Dont like ads Neither do we but they help us bring all this content to you absolutely free. Please whitelist us to continue reading and watching news from Indias most trusted news source.
Firefox Private Window runs its own version of adblock. You will receive an adblock detection screen on private window even if you are not running any adblock plugins. In this case you will need to open indiatoday.in on your standard Firefox window.
According to the latest crime survey there is a greater likelihood of being scammed online than being mugged in a dark alley. The modern day criminal no longer needs to hide behind a balaclava. Its enough to just to sit behind a computer screen to ensure anonymity and walk away with thousands of pounds of other peoples money. And it happens daily.
There were five million incidents of fraud in England and Wales last year and a further . million cyber crime offences such as computer hacking an indicator that how criminals strike is evolving in line with modern technology and in modern society the greatest threat comes from cyber crime.
Organised gangs use the anonymity of the internet to commit largescale crime outside of UK jurisdictions rendering them untouchable by western law enforcement. However cyber crime and fraud continue to be hugely underreported as a faulty perception of what constitutes criminal activity persists both amongst a complacent public and a police force illequipped to tackle cyber criminals.
A survey of UK police forces last year found that less than onethird of key cybercrime staff had the skills or technology to address the threat. The head of Scotland Yards fraud team said in comments reported by Computer Weekly that the crime over the previous decade had been rampant because the force was simply not good at investigating it.
Police and banks lack the resources to address the increasingly sophisticated techniques used in hacking and financial fraud while a nation of pensioners are targets of cold calling by selfstyled financial companies offering dubious free pension surveys. Little can be done to stop the cold callers as they are not technically deemed to be criminals despite regularly cleaning out many unsuspecting elderly victims of their lifes savings.
While the rising fraud crime wave has been substantial authorities and the public alike are only just beginning to recognise the all too real dangers of the criminals lurking behind their computer screens.
Any crime committed by means of or by using a computer and an internet connection or computer technology is known as Cyber Crime. There is not just a single aspect to the definition of cyber crime. The crime can be anything. It spans from malware injection to hacking to socialidentity thefts and more. The scope of this article is to answer the what is cyber crime and how Microsoft deals with it.
These are just the most basic aspects of cybercrime that I can recall at the time of writing. There are many more aspects to the illegal business and in each instance of the illegal activity there is one or more computer andor an Internet connection involved. Such attack committed with a vie to committing a Cyber Crime can be called as a Cyber Attack.
There are nearly million victims of cybercrime each year. And cybercrime costs consumers billion per year. India followed by Pakistan Egypt Brazil Algeria and Mexico have the largest number of infected machines involving malware developed outside Eastern Europe.
Maintain good system hygiene. It goes without saying that you must have a fully updated operating system and installed software and a good security software to protect your computer apart from having safe browsing habits.
Then there may have been times when people may have contacted you claiming to be from a job portal or tech support or even your Bank and asked you for information initially and then maybe get you to make some payment for some imaginary service. Do not respond to such contacts. That is the first basic preventive step you can take. There are many who would fall prey to it and yet wont report the matter.
To fight cybercrime you have to report it in case you have fallen prey. There is nothing to feel ashamed about If an email or phone takes aid of a known or popular service or brand you should always alert the service or brand that their name is being misused so that they can take appropriate steps and at the least alert their other customers to not fall prey.
Besides if a cybercrime has made you suffer physical mental or financial loss you can report it to the concerned department that every government has nowadays. Each country takes cybercrime seriously and has organizations that work actively to tackle the crime and to bring the criminals to justice.
If your system has fallen prey to a Botnet you may want to have a look at some Botnet Removal Tools.
If you are in the US you can report to Official Website of Department of Homeland Security. If it was a phone call or email keep the logs and contents separately and securely as they will further help you. If it was a malware you cannot do much except to hope that the organization to which you have reported comes up with some proper plan and takes some action.
The Internet Crime Complaint Center IC is a partnership between the Federal Bureau of Investigation FBI and the National White Collar Crime Center NWC. As a victim you can report online Internet crime complaints here.
In case of spam phishing and social engineering attacks you can keep the communications as a proof but in case of malware attacks which may have compromised your system you do not know who the criminal is and hence you cant progress much in the fight on your own.
This is where Microsofts Cybercrime Security Cell comes in. It is Microsofts own way of fighting cybercrime and the idea is to prevent the crime from happening rather than waking up after the crime has been committed.
Microsoft says that the first step towards fighting cybercrime is to use secure reliable and honest IT Information Technology spanning from firmware to operating system to the cloud. While it is true that a wellprotected computer would reduce chances of it getting hacked it is also true that many computers come with preinstalled malware. That is why Microsoft used the word honest. You may not believe that many computers have pirated software installed on them and in a way that they give false positives so that users believe the software is genuine. There are not many methods to detect the fake software except for manual forensic methods and these software are often bundled with malware that sends your information to the cyber criminals who created the fake software.
The Cybercrime page of Microsoft says that in a sample they tested almost of computers using pirated operating system or pirated software had the malware preinstalled. That means new Windows PCs were already infected and designed to send your personal information to the cyber criminals.
Microsoft has tapped the thousands of spambots originating from cybercriminals and led them to an artificial sink or honey pots so that computers across the world especially in East AsiaPacific region are safe. According to their study most of the infected computers are found in countries situated in East Asia and outside Europe. However they sitting at Redmond are running an analysis all the while to counter whatever type of malware they can detect and stop them from spreading any further to contain the damage.
Using pirated software leaves your computer systems more open to malicious computer viruses worms and Trojans Or that as many as of DVDs and PCs sold with pirated software in India are already preinfected with malware that facilitates cybercrime
These were some of the explosive findings of Microsoft Indias Truthlabs report
In the words of Keshav Dhakad Regional Director of Intellectual Property Digital Crimes Unit DCU Asia Legal Corporate Affairs Microsoft
With fighting malware and cybercrime we also want cybercriminals to know that Microsoft platforms will always remain hostile to their nefarious activities and we will continue to invest in innovative technology and tools to enable us to fight newer threats to protect our customers. Thats where weve been successful in creating a secure trusted and reliable environmentbe it onpremise or on the cloud.
Microsoft not only is building and rebuilding its software it also warns cyber criminals against creating cyber bots and malware. According to Keshav Windows and Windows . are some platforms that have the highest security features and that Microsoft technology based cloud services have also safeguarded their clouds based on the inputs they gathered from their cybercrime cell.
We now have a section of our website dedicated to information and advice about Cyber Crime or eCrime as it is sometimes known.
It covers a huge range of illegal activity including financial scams computer hacking online stalking or cyberbullying of young people and identity theft.
We have links to useful information on crime prevention and reporting from organisations like the Consumer Council and the Police Service of Northern Ireland.
With the festive period in full swing and more people shopping online than ever before we want to wish everyone a safe and happy Christmas.
Victim Support appreciatesthe funding we receive from the Department of Justice however every penny helps You can now donate online.
An activity sometimes creating problems with serious sideeffects. Cyber attacks whether for a justified cause or made with an obviously destructive malicious intent always followed in the keel water of our so rapidly expanding reliance on Internet computing.
Remote hacking and data mining seem to be here to stay and subsequently became a natural part of modern warfare. The technology making remote computing possible actually isnt all bad and is in general performed responsibly by most users. Now if we as a species acted more benevolently towards eachother surely there wouldnt be so many of the crazy stories we intercept in the cyber crime category often falling under the label you wouldnt believe it.
Then just click the headlines if you want to read more on the actual news websites from where the original articles are sourced via google news.
Computer crime or Cybercrime refers to any crime that involves a computer and a network where the computer may have been used in the commission of a crime or it may be the target.
Cyberwarfare in Russia includes allegations of denial of service attacks hacker attacks and dissemination of disinformation over the internet just to mention a few.
Though the Government of China consistently deny its involvement in hacking the story of Wicked Rose a top notch hacker indicates otherwise
Anonymous is a decentralized virtual community commonly referred to as an internet based collective of hacktivists whose goals like its organization are decentralized.
A bloodless bank heist that netted more than million has left even cyber crime experts impressed by the technical sophistication if not the virtue of the con artists who pulled off a remarkable internationally organized attack. 
It was pretty ingenious Pace University computer science professor Darren Hayes said Friday. 
On the creative side of the heist a small team of highly skilled hackers penetrated bank systems erased withdrawal limits on prepaid debit cards and stole account numbers. On the crude end criminals used handheld devices to change the information on the magnetic strips of old hotel key cards used credit cards and depleted debit cards. 
Seven people were arrested in the U.S. accused of operating the New York cell of what prosecutors said was a network that carried out thefts at ATMs in countries from Canada to Russia. Law enforcement agencies from more than a dozen nations were involved in the investigation which was being led by the Secret Service. 
Its pretty scary if you think about it. They changed the account balances. Thats like the holy grail for a thief said Chris Wysopal cofounder of security company Veracode. 
Crime ring members in countries ran used plastic cards just about anything with a standard magnetic strip through handheld magnetic stripe encoders widely available online for less than . Those devices allow users to change information on magnetic stripes or to write new cards with a simple swipe. 
In this case the stripes were rewritten with information from the hackers. That allowed the thieves to turn the cards into gold instantly transforming them into prepaid debit cards with unlimited amounts of money stored on them. 
In December they worked for about hours reaping million worldwide in about transactions. Two months later apparently buoyed by their success they hit the ATMs for hours straight collecting million in transactions. 
The New York money runners made off with . million according to the indictment a fraction of the total amount yielded by the heist. 
Players kept a cut but sent the bulk of the money back to the masterminds through wire transfers and sometimes in person prosecutors said. 
One New York suspect Elvis Rodriguez planned to travel to Romania in January to pay about to organizers of the operation but American Airlines canceled the reservation because the airline was concerned it had been booked with a stolen credit card according to the criminal complaint. The reservation was canceled but the suspect paid for the trip in cash it said. 
Authorities said they seized his iPhone and found a photo of him and another suspect posing with a stack of cash between them in a car. 
There were obviously a lot of great minds behind this exploit and then there were the pawns the mules. They are entirely exploitable said Phyllis Scheck vice president at the security firm McAfee who has testified to Congress about how banks and small businesses need to prepare for cyber thieves. 
In the end the victims werent individuals. They were two banks Rakbank in the United Arab Emirates and the Bank of Muscat in Oman which had their card processors breached prosecutors said. 
More investigations continue and other arrests have been made in other countries but New York prosecutors did not have details. More arrests in the U.S. were possible they said. 
Police in Duesseldorf Germany said a yearold woman and her yearold son were linked to the case earlier this year and are still in investigative detention after having been arrested in February. They have refused to speak to police. 
In New York the cell was led by Alberto Lajud Pena who was found dead in the Dominican Republic with in cash on him prosecutors said. A man arrested in his death told authorities it was a botched robbery and two other suspects were on the lam. 
According to court documents Lajud Pena communicated via email with a Russian criminal organization that specializes in laundering money and wrote to his shadowy bosses in charge of the operation. He wired money and deposited cash into several accounts. 
Prosecutors said Lajud Pena recruited men he knew from Yonkers some of whom worked as bus drivers for a company that provided services to specialneeds students. 
All but one of the surviving suspects were in jail and it wasnt clear who was representing them. In Yonkers Friday neighbors at the basement apartment where authorities said they seized of the stolen money said police had visited two days in a row last month. 
Associated Press writers Peter Svensson and James Fitzgerald in New York Frank Jordans in Berlin and writer Ezequiel Abi Lpez in Santo Domingo Dominican Republic contributed to this report. 
error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.
Today the Joint Cybercrime Action Taskforce JCAT is launched to further strengthen the fight against cybercrime in the European Union and beyond. Hosted at the European Cybercrime Centre EC at Europol the JCAT which is being piloted for six months will coordinate international investigations with partners working sidebyside to take action against key cybercrime threats and top targets such as underground forums and malware including banking Trojans. The JCAT will be led by Andy Archibald Deputy Director of the National Cyber Crime Unit from the UKs National Crime Agency NCA.
The JCAT was initiated by Europols EC the EU Cybercrime Taskforce the FBI and the NCA and the JCAT comprises a team composed of Cyber Liaison Officers from committed and closely involved Member States nonEU law enforcement partners and EC. Key contributors to the intelligence pool will be the EU Member States via EC and other law enforcement cooperation partners. Thus far Austria Canada Germany France Italy the Netherlands Spain the UK and the US are part of the JCAT. Australia and Colombia have also committed to the initiative.
The JCAT was initiated by Europols EC the EU Cybercrime Taskforce the FBI and the NCA and the JCAT comprises a team composed of Cyber Liaison Officers from committed and closely involved Member States nonEU law enforcement partners and EC. Key contributors to the intelligence pool will be the EU Member States via EC and other law enforcement cooperation partners. Thus far Austria Canada Germany France Italy the Netherlands Spain the UK and the US are part of the JCAT. Australia and Colombia have also committed to the initiative.
Today is a good day for those fighting cybercrime in Europe and beyond. For the first time in modern police history a multilateral permanent cybercrime taskforce has been established in Europe to coordinate investigations against top cybercriminal networks. The Joint Cybercrime Action Taskforce will operate from secure offices in Europols HQ assisted by experts and analysts from the European Cybercrime Centre. The aim is not purely strategic but also very operational. The goal is to prevent cybercrime to disrupt it catch crooks and seize their illegal profits. This is a first step in a long walk towards an open transparent free but also safe Internet. The goal cannot be reached by law enforcement alone but will require a consolidated effort from many stakeholders in our global village. But the JCAT will do its part of the necessary heavylifting and that work started today. I am confident we will see practical tangible results very soon.
The JCAT will for the first time bring together a coalition of countries across Europe and beyond to coordinate the operational response to the common current and emerging global cyber threats faced by JCAT members.
This is a unique opportunity for international law enforcement agencies to collectively share our knowledge to defend against cyber related attacks and the UKs National Crime Agency is proud to be a founding member.
EC is involved in crossborder cybercrime investigations and has seen a rapid increase in major international cases. The JCAT aims to add significant value to international law enforcement cooperation and to maximise the effectiveness of joint and coordinated actions. Cybercrime affects citizens business and governments regardless of their national borders or jurisdictions. Police forces across the world face similar crimes and criminal targets. For that reason more than with any other type of crime it is crucial to share intelligence and align priorities. The JCAT offers the possibility to address the most impactful crimes affecting many states in a joint wellconcerted manner and with the assistance of EC.
The JCAT will gather data on specific criminal themes from national repositories and from relevant government and private partners as well as transforming this raw data into actionable intelligence and proposing targets and networks for investigations. It will cover all relevant areas like malware coding testing distribution Botnets CrimeasaService online fraud intrusion and similar topend crimes.
In addition it will organise dedicated consultation meetings with key actors in the private sector and the Computer Emergency Response Teams for the EU institutions bodies and agencies CERTEU to obtain their input on cybercrime threats that affect them and society in general.
For more information general enquiries and details about visiting Europol please refer to our Contact us section.
The owner of this website caymannewsservice.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebdacdeua.
New research has revealed the full extent of the economics involved in cyber crime with UK malware makers earning less than their foreign counterparts.
Research from Palo Alto Networks and the Ponemon Institute showed that UK hackers earn for a successful attack compared to for those in Germany and in the US.
It is often thought that successful cyber attackers are in line for a big pay day but the report says that this is not the case. The researchers calculated a return of for each successful attack and put the average number of successful attacks per year at ..
From this data and the percentage of successful attacks it extrapolated that on average attackers earn a year from cyber attacks for an average of hours work.
This is of the average earnings of cyber security professionals.The report said that the fully loaded hourly labor rate for an experienced IT security professional is ..
Despite this seemingly low financial return of attackers in the study said that they were motivated by money perhaps holding out hope they could be in line for a big pay day.
The report also revealed the full extent of the opportunism involved in cyber crime. of adversaries said that they would not bother with an attack that did not quickly bring in highvalue information and said that they looked for cheap easy targets.
Consequently the report said that increasing the time it takes to conduct a successful attack is a powerful deterrent that organisations could employ. It found that an increase of hours could eliminate up to of attacks.
One of the ways to increase the time is to create a strong security posture. The research found that if an organisation has an excellent IT infrastructure it can take hours for a technically proficient cyber attacker to plan and execute an attack double the hours that it takes against those organisations with just a typical security setup.
The researchers found that on average after hours attackers would quit an attack.
The survey illustrates the importance of threat prevention. By adopting nextgeneration security technologies and a breach prevention philosophy organizations can lower the return on investment an adversary can expect from a cyberattack by such a degree that they abandon the attack before its completed said Dr. Larry Ponemon chairman and founder Ponemon Institute
The Ponemon institute surveyed participants in Germany the UK and the US with of those respondents saying they were involved in the hacker community.
The Silk Road has lost more than . million in Bitcoins and the community is scrambling to find someone to take the blame.
The Cryptolocker virus was too restrictive and often left money on the table the eventual fix is among the most cynical and cutthroat moves in the history of cybercrime.
The Honble Supreme Court of India in Criminal Appeal No. of Arising out of S.L.P Crl. No. of State of Kerala versus P.B Sourabhan Ors. upheld the power of the State Police Chief to appoint a suitable and competent officer to investigate a case irrespective of the limits of local jurisdiction of such officer.
Gazans sent to smuggle Hamas funds in their shoes enable Israel to learn about new tunnels
Clinton campaign slams hateful Max Blumenthal comments on the late Elie Wiesel
Jared Kushner employee blasts him for ignoring antiSemitic imagery in Trump campaign
Is a Jewish safe haven possible in the Diaspora is America the exception
Israel Police Insp.Gen. Yohanan Danino on Monday announced the creation Homeland Security in Tel Aviv Danino said that he participated in an Interpol 
Copyright Jpost Inc. All rights reserved Terms of Use Privacy Policy
All online transactions are done using all major Credit Cards or Electronic Check through either PayPal or Moneybookers. These are safe secure and efficient ways to make payment online.
The concept of cyber crime is not new yet there are still quite a number of challenges in the legal framework designed to combat the issue. This problem has evolved speedily in the recent past due to the increase in the application of computers mobile devices and access to the internet. Digital crimes have transformed from ordinary fraud to extremely complex targeted and Advanced Persistence Threats APT Brown Roth . Cyber crime poses a substantive threat to individuals and national security both online and offline. This calls for a legal setup to empower the responsible agencies act effectively on this subject. To combat the threats and damages caused by cyber related crimes UAE United Arab Emirates enacted laws pertaining to cybercrime to protect its citizens infrastructures national security as well as to prosecute the people responsible for this unlawful activity. This report will consider the laws and regulations enacted by the UAE to fight cybercrime within and beyond its borders. The paper highlights and summarizes the cyber crime laws UAE as of April .
The internet is perhaps the most transformative invention of the twentieth century. It has allowed instant connectivity to all corners of the world in a revolutionary manner. Business and commerce have now spread to several client and consumers with relative ease. Thus the internet is an international interactive and consistently changing center for connectivity. Therefore measures to maintain some order over the internet has to be an effort several players that is governments and private sector businesses. Cyber crime consists of all criminal activities that utilize the computer and its related devices Casey . The offences include activities where the computer is the primary instrument of the offence and an aid to the crime. In November the UAE implemented the most comprehensive and detailed cyber crime laws in the wider Middle East Mustafa Ruiz . It consisted of a full array of offences that could be committed using the computer or through the internet with their respective sentences to those found guilty. These laws were implemented in response to growing levels of cyber crime activities in the UAE. Cyber crime in the UAE is catalyzed by the aggressive advancements in technology and the increase in online transactions GulfNews . This report will consider the laws and regulations enacted by the UAE to fight cybercrime within and beyond its borders. The paper highlights and summarizes the cyber crime laws UAE as of April .
It is extremely important to understand the ICT terms used within the legal framework in order to eliminate confusion when persecuting an offender. These terms are defined under UAE law which include electronic information information program the internet electronic document and website. A website is defined as a data access point on the internet where the internet is simply the data communications systems which links information technology. Government data refers to that which pertains to the federal government and its related local or public entities. A person faces imprisonment and a fine for intentionally forging or using a forged federal document aeCERT .
Laws are enacted to govern protect and secure people property as well as the activities linking them. The UAE tackles cyber crime with the help of UAE Computer Emergency Response Team CERT aeCERT . CERT was formed by The Telecommunications Regulatory Authority TRA to detect and prevent cyber crime in UAE. This was a countermeasure because cyber crimes had led to loss of valuable data and damage in IT Information Technology infrastructure in some countries.
The Federal Legal Decree No. for on fighting cyber crimes was issued by the President His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan Mustafa Ruiz . It included amendments to Federal Legal Decree No. for on cyber crimes. The new law criminalizes the use of any information communication and technology ICT tools or the internet to commit an array of crimes punishable by imprisonment and or fine. Articles in the Federal Legal Decree No. for on cyber crime cover content conduct commercialism and contact. Some of the primary offences include breach of privacy defamation publishing illegal content hacking and phishing identity theft credit card fraud money laundering and threatening national security UAECyber . It is also illegal to capture or intercept communication intentionally without permission AlJandaly .
In November the UAE reinforced its dedication towards electronicsecurity and the campaign against cyber crimes. The UAE government enacted two new laws. That is the Federal Law no. Of concerning Cyber Crimes and the Federal Law no. Of concerning the establishment of the National Electronic Security Authority NESA. The Federal Law no. Of is also known as the ESecurity Authority Law. This set of new laws builds on the Federal Legal Decree No. For on cyber crimes. They also reinforce other UAE internet security measures and programs such as the formation of the UAE Computer Emergency Response Team and various public awareness campaigns for example Salim UAECyber .
The rapid growth of cyber crimes in UAE advocated for the repeal of the previous Federal Legal Decree no. For on cyber crimes. This sharp increase in cyber crimes is correlated to the advancement in ICTs. The business landscape in UAE is also tremendously transforming to online transactions. With the increasing trends of globalization the nature of crime has also evolved from the physical market to the cyberspace. There are various cases of money laundering identity theft and loss of trade secrets and intellectual property rights.
The Federal Legal Decree No. For covers a wider array of offences than the previous cyber crime laws. Examples include forging electronic documents using IT systems for phishing and hacking damaging or altering electronic information and interrupting access to a communication network Mustafa Ruiz . In addition these laws criminalize intentional disclosure or retransmission of electronically stored data without permission Mustafa Ruiz . This covers sensitive credit card or financial details theft personal medical information and fraud. Cyber crime laws in UAE also cover blackmail through electronic means. These laws also prohibit preparation distribution publishing or republishing of pornographic material in UAE. The UAE cyber crime laws also consist of offences linked to the threat to national security and activities promoting terrorism AlJandaly .
The new amendments increased the fine of some offences from three hundred thousand Dirhams up to million Dirhams AED. Some offences also lead to jail terms of up to years. The punishments and penalties as set out in the Federal Legal Decree No. For can accompany more stern punishment as entrenched in the Penal Code or any other related law in the UAE.
For instance breach of intellectual property rights can be linked to the Federal Law No. Of on Criminalizing the Money Laundry and the Federal Law No. Of on author Rights and the relating rights aeCERT .
Furthermore the UAE courts have the constitutional power to impound computers and the cyber crime related devices. The courts can as well deprive access to IT systems or completely shut down illegal websites. Foreigners face deportation in the event that they are convicted of any cyber criminal offences.
The National ESecurity Authority the Authority was established by the Federal Law No. of along with the new Cyber Crimes Law of with the main objective of protecting the communications networks and information systems found in the country as well as developing amending and using appropriate methods to enhance electronic security AlJandaly . It also has a specific responsibility of giving support to the federal and Emirate level government institutions. The Authoritys esecurity initiative also extends to the private sector. The National ESecurity Authority also coordinates with the aeCERT and the Telecommunications Authority TRA to achieve its goals aeCERT .
In the Norton Cybercrime report indicated that of adults in UAE have been victims of cyber crimes either through their mobile phones of social networking sites GulfNews . In Dubai approximately cyber crimes were reported to the police AlJandaly . According to the polices Magazine social networking sites cloud computing and Smartphones are more prone to cyber attacks. All these dimensions are the present trends in the UAE. This implies that people are victimized on a daily basis. In addition the findings indicate that the in the UAE residents lost about Dh . billion in cyber crimes. In the loss fell to Dh billion. This is attributed to governments aggressive initiatives towards cyber security.
In January it was reported that of cyber attacks centered on the banking sector GulfNews . This affected both ATM automated teller machine and online banking applications. In the same month of the attacks were targeted towards the governments online services educational institutions and telecommunication services.
UAE established special cyber crime units to tackle crime within and outside its territory AlJandaly . The government has also established dedicated police departments committed to solve hightech crimes. Other measures taken to tackle cyber crime in the UAE include public awareness and adoption of common treaties with other countries. Examples include the GCC countries and the EU. The United Arab Emirates government frequently scans the internet to filter websites that contain sensitive materials such as pornography gambling materials terrorist activities and anti Islamic religion Deibert etal . The aeCERT works with other agencies to formulate sound laws within the subject. TRA has been reporting the governments efforts in counteracting internet threats especially phishing attacks and website defacement.
The UAE government through aeCERT embarked on amending the cyber crime laws focusing strictly on computer crimes. This move is meant to eliminate old statutes that were used in persecution of regular real world crimes. The old laws were ineffective since they were not written to handle the unique computer crimes. The government is also keeping track of the technological changes and the related transformations in digital crimes. For instance TRA and aeCERT have shifted focus on the proliferation of mobile devices in cyberspace. These devices have become the main conduits of network breaches given their architectural design and internet access technologies are more advanced. The government focuses on handheld gadgets because most of the social networking and engineering as well as financial transactions are carried out on handheld smart gadgets Brown Roth .
In the current technological environment we face numerous challenges in our efforts to combat cyber crime. The greatest problem is whether or not the involved entities or law enforcement agencies comprehends how the laws should apply. The other challenge is how cyber investigations should be conducted. Even with the governments computer law crimes there are few persecutions for the loss or damage because of cyber crimes. This is subject to the fact that it is challenging to identify and track down offenders Casey Turvey . Most perpetrators take advantage of the anonymity of the cyberspace to conceal their identity. Moreover it is challenging to apply these laws effectively in persecution cases without a deep insight and the actual digital crime evidence. Cyber crime investigators must avail credible digital evidence to a court of law to persecute a perpetrator Vacca . Cyber crime now relies and exploits various digital tools such as digital gaming wireless telephony and social networking. This calls for collaboration of technical experts and law enforcement agencies as well as the private sector to curb cyber crime. Threats associated with the cyberspace should be debated openly to increase awareness. Therefore it is imperative to understand and effectively implement the enacted laws to keep our cyberspace safe and punish the guilty.
On assumption of charge as Director General Inspector General of PoliceOdisha . 
Odisha Police is committed to serve the people of Odisha which is the eleventh largest state in India in terms of population with about . Crore citizens.
The sanction strength of Odisha Police is about personnel. Odisha Police recruits one third women in the directly recruited posts of civil constables sub inspectors and deputy superintendent of police. In terms of representation of women in police Odisha is among the best in the country.
