Giancarlo Stanton hit two long homers to match his career high with five RBIs powering WeiYin Chen and the Miami Marlins to a victory that snapped the New York Mets fivegame winning streak
The Chicago Cubs became the first team since the Cincinnati Reds Big Red Machine to have five players voted as AllStar Game starters when their entire infield earned the honor Tuesday along with center fielder Dexter Fowler
Ford Motor Co. board member Edsel Ford II will not face charges following a domestic violence incident involving his wife at their suburban Detroit home
Jose Reyes is set to rejoin the New York Mets for Tuesday nights game against the Miami Marlins his return to the major leagues following a domestic violence suspension
Police say five people were killed and at least were injured when a man entered a cafe in northern Serbia and sprayed the visitors with automatic gun fire
David Wright says Jose Reyes actions in a domesticviolence dispute were horrible but is pleased his former teammate is being given a second chance by the New York Mets
Court records show domestic violence charges have been dropped against wrestler Jerry Lawler and his fiancee in Tennessee
Authorities say a good Samaritan could not save a Las Vegas woman screaming for help as her gunwielding estranged husband chased her from their home to two drug store parking lots in a chaotic murdersuicide that left a family of five dead
The core exercise of freedom of expression is unlikely to pose a serious risk of physical harm particularly lethal harm. The same cannot be said of the Second Amendment right. For this reason it is misguided for courts to reflexively apply to the Second Amendment the same constitutional standards and reasoning developed in First Amendment cases.
When Christy Sheats called a family meeting on June authorities say her husband thought it would be to let their two daughters know they were divo.
Parents who work together and make the best decisions for their child are better off than when a court imposes an order on the family. With that goal in mind look for a parenting expert or coach in your city. There are also many valuable resources available to you including coparenting classes and coparenting books. Finally dont forget to talk to an attorney in your city for a resource list and tips on how to navigate this process
A Texas mom called a family meeting on her husbands birthday before pulling out a gun and shooting her two daughters dead according to authorities.
As NFL training camps approach the Seattle Seahawks once again find themselves one of the prohibitive favorites to win the NFC and potentially a .
In Winona Ryder and Johnny Depp ended their engagement after a fouryear relationship. Twentythree years later the actress is coming to Depps.
The Supreme Court ruled in a decision announced Monday that a domestic violence assault committed recklessly qualifies as a misdemeanor crime of dom.
For approximately years Minnesota authorities say Jessica Haban was physically and emotionally abused by her partner. Long Vang allegedly sm.
As we look into the life and history of the shooter the picture that is coming together is of a person who had a history of violence dating back to elementary school. He had a history of domestic violence he made threats to coworkers and seemed to be struggling with his sexual orientation.
We cant be good fathers as long as we tolerate the epidemic of sexual assaults against young women and girls.
For all the innocent people who have lost their lives as a result of what may well have been Mateens internalized homophobia turned outward countless others lose their lives every day as a result of internalized homophobia and transphobia turned inward.
This April I was inside a high security prison. The plan was to talk to the men there about the work cdv.org does and to educate them on the connection between childhood adversities and the potential impact. While I believe I educated them they also educated me. Here is what I learned.
Mass shootings lead to media narratives and political rhetoric about stopping crazy evil monsters from accessing guns which increases stigma and makes inaccessible treatment even less utilized.
Long before yearold Omar Mateen opened fire in a popular gay nightclub in Orlando Florida and committed the deadliest mass shooting in modern U..
Daughter is a short film by Australian filmmakers Sarah Jayne and Ivan Malekin. The film explores violence against women societal stigmas and vi.
For some women being in an abusive relationship is like being in prison and a new short film is perfectly illustrating that point. On Tuesday the.
In back when he was just a few months removed from going first overall in the NFL Draft to the Buffalo Bills O.J. Simpson told then New York Ti.
For more information about the history of the gun violence prevention movement and how the gun lobby has taken over the process read the companion p.
As a child abuse and domestic violence advocate Ive worked comfortable in the knowledge I was on the right side of the crime until this spring when I found myself advocating for a yearold AfricanAmerican Dallas boy accused of sexual assault. He was a victim too.
When I was in college I would read at least two newspapers per day. I was studying finance and economics and was in the habit of always staying up to.
As a public figure Evelyn Lozada has spent years living her life out in the open. So when the reality TV star alleged in that her thenhusband .
Recent articles on bonded labor and human trafficking in India highlight the all too easily overlooked fact that democracies often sustain egregious human rights violations within their own borders.
We want to have heroes and we want to remember the good times but the times our Bible discusses were not idyllic not even really good.
Regardless of ones views on the Second Amendment surely we can agree on basic steps given the overwhelming evidence about the lethal combination of domestic violence and firearms.
Amber Heards former girlfriend Tasya van Ree is speaking out after it was reported that the yearold actress was arrested for domestic violence in.
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more.
The Supreme Court while upholding a high court verdict that sentenced a man to five years in jail for torturing his pregnant wife which eventually drove her to suicide said the story was a reminder of the untold miseries of young women in matrimonial homes. 
A twoyearold app is helping women in Asias largest slum Dharavi to stand up against domestic violence. The Little Sister app working in languages is helping women report instances however small and get help.Home to a population of over one million Mumbais Dharavi sees many such cases say the women who are part of the initiative s. 
Amber and Tasva got into an argument on September at SeattleTacoma International Airport. She reportedly grabbed Van Rees arm was arrested and booked for misdemeanor and domestic violence TMZ reported. 
Months after her statement that concept of marital rape cannot be applied in the Indian context created some controversy Union minister Maneka Gandhi on Tuesday said even if there was a law against it women are unlikely to complain about this kind of abuse. 
There also have been several prior incidents of domestic violence with Johnny in particular there was one severe incident in December when I truly feared that my life was in danger Amber Heard had said in her court declaration 
Johnny Depps wife appeared in court Friday with bruises on her face accusing the Hollywood star of assaulting her and seeking a restraining order against him celebrity news website TMZ reported. 
Many children also work in the services sector in restaurants and hotels or middleclass homes where they cook clean and even take care of other children. 
In Rajasthan a state famed for its palaces and forts weddings peak during the Akshaya Tritiya festival in April and May which is considered an auspicious period. 
AAP MLA and former law minister Somnath Bharti has been chargesheeted by Delhi Police for alleged offences of attempt to murder and cruelty to his wife in a domestic violence case lodged by her. 
Can land rights for women drive down child marriage and domestic violenceYes and more says an international group of land and property rights specialists who are due in Washington this week to discuss how improved land management can reduce global poverty and foster development. 
Leading Kannada film star Darshan once arrested for domestic violence has clocked a new controversy today. 
A law unanimously passed last week in Pakistans most populated province establishes some pretty basic protections for women. 
Nuptial knot tied with another person during subsistence of the earlier marriage is invalid a Delhi court has said while dismissing a womans plea seeking relief in a domestic violence case filed against her second husband. 
A drug that causes hallucinations may have therapeutic potential for reducing intimate partner violence says a study. 
French President Francois Hollande Uses Pardon For Woman Who Killed Violent Husband
French President Francois Hollande on Sunday agreed to reduce the prison sentence of Jacqueline Sauvage whose conviction for the murder of her violent husband has stirred public opinion in a rare use of a presidential pardon in France. 
Sarah Palins son was arrested on domestic violence charges after an armed altercation with his girlfriend according to court documents filed on Tuesday as his diehard Republican mother endorsed bombastic presidential nominee Donald Trump. 
South Korea and Japan reached a landmark agreement today on the thorny issue of wartime sex slaves that has long soured relations with Tokyo offering survivors a onebillion yen payment. 
No child should have to live through the childhood she did. This story of a young Mumbai woman and her mother is one that needs to be heard. 
In a significant order the Delhi High Court has directed the Centre to take a policy decision within three months on whether visa extensions given to foreigners married to Indian nationals can also be granted to those in livein relationship with Indians. 
San Bernardino is prey to regular gang violence but the California desert town has never seen carnage of the scale that left dead on what had been just another Wednesday morning. 
The Delhi High Court today asked controversial AAP lawmaker Somnath Bharti and the police to file their response on a plea by his life Lipika seeking cancellation of his bail in a domestic violence case. 
Critics brand the Commonwealth ineffectual but its incoming chief believes the country organisation can use its strength to achieve miracles such as eradicating domestic violence. 
An art show highlighting domestic violence has been shut down at the last minute by Beijing authorities organisers said today apparently the latest victim of Chinese cultural controls. 
Britain is to give millions of pounds raised from a tampon tax to womens charities including those tackling domestic violence the government announced today. 
Lucia Felix a yearold Mozambican girl dreams of returning to her village school but instead she must prepare for motherhood after she was chosen for an arranged marriage and became pregnant. 
Lipika Mitra the estranged wife of former Delhi law minister Somnath Bharti today wrote to the Chief Election Commissioner seeking action against the AAP leader for suppressing information in the affidavit he filed for Delhi Assembly elections early this year. 
From unrequited love and cheating husbands to domestic violence and marital rape a Nigerian agony aunt is using Instagram to encourage women to share their stories anonymously ask for advice and even seek justice in court. 
A cheating husband domestic violence marital problems or a complicated love life are standard fare for agony aunts across the world. 
Israel banned the radical wing of the Islamic Movement today accusing it of fomenting violence at Jerusalems AlAqsa mosque compound that has escalated into weeks of deadly unrest. 
People all around the globe talk about feminism and women power but it seems as if crime against wo.
TV actress Smita Bansal shot to fame with the popular show Balika Vadhu and her character Sumitra ga.
Beijing Dec In a landmark decision Chinas Parliament today adopted the countrys first law aga.
The Indian filmmaker Rajesh Mapuskar who made his debut with Ferrari Ki Sawaari was arrested o.
BySheena Vasani On the surface former Bollywood actress and model Somy Alis life is like that .
This week Arjun Gupta and Akaash Singh revisited an old podcast interview they had done with Pallavi.
Delhi police is now chasing Don in the domestic violence case against AAP MLA Somnath Bharti. Yes th.
AAP MLA Somnath Bharti is likely to appear before the Delhi High Court today to challenge the Non ba.
Scars never go easily Some are visible and some unseen. The invisible ones take even a lifetime to .
Aam Aadmi Party AAP MLA and former Delhi law minister Somnath Bharti has been booked for domestic .
Mayfair LondonThe issues of domestic violence and abuse towards women in Asian and Indian cultur.
The magazines Ethicist columnist on when you suspect a family member is being abused and whether to hold a lowincome neighbor responsible for vet bills when her dog attacks yours.
More than half of all women murdered by guns are killed by partners or family members. Congress was right to ban domestic abusers from having guns.
While there are questions about what Reyes has left as a player his domestic violence case was also part of any interested teams evaluation.
The Mets beat the Braves in extra innings after signing Jose Reyes demoting Michael Conforto and calling up outfield prospect Brandon Nimmo.
A lawyer handling Johnny Manziels domestic violence case expressed doubts about the Heisman Trophywinning quarterbacks ability to stay clean.
The Mets who defeated the Braves after four straight losses have discussed signing their former shortstop.
Colorado has days to trade or release Reyes the former AllStar shortstop who recently returned from a suspension for domestic violence.
Research by social scientists reveals striking parallels between what drives the two violent phenomena.
Those who commandeer the cultural conversation online are more apt to know someone who has experienced a traumatic sexual encounter in a dorm than someone who has been beaten by a disgruntled exboyfriend.
Players in all sports would not be allowed to transfer into the conference if they had been disciplined at a previous university for most offenses involving violence or stalking.
The Rockies shortstop is back after sitting out days for violating baseballs new domestic violence policy.
Shortstop Jose Reyes a former Met was arrested last October after an incident involving his wife and had been on paid suspension since spring training.
Chapman one of baseballs best relievers and a new member of the Yankees spoke days before the end of his suspension under baseballs domestic violence policy.
Manziel a yearold former quarterback for the Cleveland Browns was booked and posted bond in a domestic violence case in Dallas on Wednesday.
A crucial issue a matter of life or death is missing from the presidential race.
The former Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel was indicted Tuesday in Dallas on allegations by his exgirlfriend Colleen Crowley that he hit her and threatened to kill her.
A domestic violence complaint accusing the former Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel of beating his exgirlfriend will be presented to a Dallas County grand jury.
Some victims of domestic violence no longer have to make the agonizing choice between their safety and their pets.
After years of violence Nadia Saavedra finally told her husband to leave their Bronx home. Soon after the police say he returned to kill her and then himself.
The magazines Ethicist columnist on when you suspect a family member is being abused and whether to hold a lowincome neighbor responsible for vet bills when her dog attacks yours.
More than half of all women murdered by guns are killed by partners or family members. Congress was right to ban domestic abusers from having guns.
While there are questions about what Reyes has left as a player his domestic violence case was also part of any interested teams evaluation.
The Mets beat the Braves in extra innings after signing Jose Reyes demoting Michael Conforto and calling up outfield prospect Brandon Nimmo.
A lawyer handling Johnny Manziels domestic violence case expressed doubts about the Heisman Trophywinning quarterbacks ability to stay clean.
The Mets who defeated the Braves after four straight losses have discussed signing their former shortstop.
Colorado has days to trade or release Reyes the former AllStar shortstop who recently returned from a suspension for domestic violence.
Research by social scientists reveals striking parallels between what drives the two violent phenomena.
Those who commandeer the cultural conversation online are more apt to know someone who has experienced a traumatic sexual encounter in a dorm than someone who has been beaten by a disgruntled exboyfriend.
Players in all sports would not be allowed to transfer into the conference if they had been disciplined at a previous university for most offenses involving violence or stalking.
The Rockies shortstop is back after sitting out days for violating baseballs new domestic violence policy.
Shortstop Jose Reyes a former Met was arrested last October after an incident involving his wife and had been on paid suspension since spring training.
Chapman one of baseballs best relievers and a new member of the Yankees spoke days before the end of his suspension under baseballs domestic violence policy.
Manziel a yearold former quarterback for the Cleveland Browns was booked and posted bond in a domestic violence case in Dallas on Wednesday.
A crucial issue a matter of life or death is missing from the presidential race.
The former Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel was indicted Tuesday in Dallas on allegations by his exgirlfriend Colleen Crowley that he hit her and threatened to kill her.
A domestic violence complaint accusing the former Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel of beating his exgirlfriend will be presented to a Dallas County grand jury.
Some victims of domestic violence no longer have to make the agonizing choice between their safety and their pets.
After years of violence Nadia Saavedra finally told her husband to leave their Bronx home. Soon after the police say he returned to kill her and then himself.
The owner of this website www.topix.com has banned the country or region your IP address is in IN from accessing this website.
Advocates are calling for a change to domestic violence policing and laws arguing too many female victims are being punished for acting in self defence.
The NSW Opposition says the Government cannot adequately fund refuges for domestic violence victims if it has no idea how many beds are currently available.
A Brisbane man is declared a serious violent offender and jailed for eight years for a cowardly attack that left his wife with significant and ongoing injuries.
A new system to tackle family violence in Tasmania comes online as figures show the number of reported cases are up by and concerns remain that some victims are not coming forward.
Parramatta Eels star Semi Radradra is charged with three counts of domestic violence after being arrested at Sydney Airport on Thursday night.
The ACT Government says it will accept all recommendations from a series of reports centred on systemic responses to family violence.
A New Zealand couple has been sentenced to years in jail over the death of a threeyearold boy in their care.
Months of preparation come together in three shows of couture fashion with a message at the Moonah Arts Centre.
Cabinet ministers take a strong stand against Eddie McGuires disparaging comments about a female journalist describing them as incredibly disappointing and reminding all public figures their words matter.
Postersized stickers on wheelie bins are being rolled out as the latest tool to address domestic and family violence in parts of regional Queensland.
Pledges to reform the handling of domestic violence cases are just empty political rhetoric without any funding to back it up the Chief Justice of the Family Court says.
Four of Australias largest sporting organisations including the AFL and NRL commit to do more to promote women and clamp down on attitudes that can lead to violence.
An organisation working with domestic violence victims in Newcastle says elder abuse is on the rise.
Rosie Batty and Danny Blay speak at a family violence election forum at the National Press Club
Prison time does little to deter domestic violence perpetrators from reoffending new research reveals.
Concerns about an increasing number of children being exposed to domestic violence prompts Victorias biggest care provider to launch a campaign to show how it impacts a childs life. 
Men at risk of committing acts of domestic violence will have access to crisis accommodation and behavioural therapy under a new ACT Government program.
Opposition Leader Bill Shorten announces million for safe houses to protect women and children fleeing domestic violence.
NSW Government announces a million budget package for victims of domestic violence which in a national first will include the roll out of tracking devices for offenders.
The ACT Governments budget centrepiece the Safer Families package is welcomed by local frontline services but disability advocates say more needs to be done for those who do not live in traditional settings. 
A New South Wales Supreme Court jury has found a man guilty of the murder of his former fiance in the bedroom of her home.
An international aid organisation says the damage and trauma from Cyclone Winston in Fiji have led to an increase in domestic violence.
This service may include material from Agence FrancePresse AFP APTN Reuters AAP CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST Australian Eastern Standard Time which is hours ahead of UTC Greenwich Mean Time
Natalie Mast University of Western Australia Andrew Dodd Swinburne University of Technology Carolyn Whitzman University of Melbourne Daniel Baldino University of Notre Dame Australia Jago Dodson RMIT University Janine OFlynn University of Melbourne Kate FitzGibbon Monash University Matthew Beck University of Sydney Merlin Crossley UNSW Australia Peter Whiteford Australian National University Susan Harris Rimmer Griffith University and Thas Ampalavanapillai Nirmalathas University of Melbourne
Senior Research and ARC DECRA Fellow Justice and Legal Studies RMIT University
Senior Lecturer Faculty of Law Deputy Director of the Indigenous Law Centre UNSW Australia
Professor School of Criminology and Criminal Justice Griffith University
Professor Department of General Practice Director of Researching Abuse and Violence in Primary Care program Director of Post graduate Primary Care Nursing University of Melbourne
Postdoctoral Research Fellow Institute for Social Science Research The University of Queensland
Professor and Director of the Centre for Health and Social Research Australian Catholic University
Associate Professor Orygen the National Centre of Excellence in Youth Mental Health University of Melbourne
Fron JacksonWebb The Conversation Michael Courts The Conversation Emil Jeyaratnam The Conversation and Wes Mountain The Conversation
With Support From An App Women Stand Up To Domestic Violence In DharaviJun 
The Supreme Court while upholding a high court verdict that sentenced a man to five years in jail for torturing his pregnant wife which eventually drove her to suicide said the story was a reminder of the untold miseries of young women in matrimonial homes. 
A twoyearold app is helping women in Asias largest slum Dharavi to stand up against domestic violence. The Little Sister app working in languages is helping women report instances however small and get help.Home to a population of over one million Mumbais Dharavi sees many such cases say the women who are part of the initiative s. 
Amber and Tasva got into an argument on September at SeattleTacoma International Airport. She reportedly grabbed Van Rees arm was arrested and booked for misdemeanor and domestic violence TMZ reported. 
Months after her statement that concept of marital rape cannot be applied in the Indian context created some controversy Union minister Maneka Gandhi on Tuesday said even if there was a law against it women are unlikely to complain about this kind of abuse. 
There also have been several prior incidents of domestic violence with Johnny in particular there was one severe incident in December when I truly feared that my life was in danger Amber Heard had said in her court declaration 
Johnny Depps wife appeared in court Friday with bruises on her face accusing the Hollywood star of assaulting her and seeking a restraining order against him celebrity news website TMZ reported. 
Many children also work in the services sector in restaurants and hotels or middleclass homes where they cook clean and even take care of other children. 
In Rajasthan a state famed for its palaces and forts weddings peak during the Akshaya Tritiya festival in April and May which is considered an auspicious period. 
AAP MLA and former law minister Somnath Bharti has been chargesheeted by Delhi Police for alleged offences of attempt to murder and cruelty to his wife in a domestic violence case lodged by her. 
Can land rights for women drive down child marriage and domestic violenceYes and more says an international group of land and property rights specialists who are due in Washington this week to discuss how improved land management can reduce global poverty and foster development. 
Leading Kannada film star Darshan once arrested for domestic violence has clocked a new controversy today. 
A law unanimously passed last week in Pakistans most populated province establishes some pretty basic protections for women. 
Nuptial knot tied with another person during subsistence of the earlier marriage is invalid a Delhi court has said while dismissing a womans plea seeking relief in a domestic violence case filed against her second husband. 
A drug that causes hallucinations may have therapeutic potential for reducing intimate partner violence says a study. 
French President Francois Hollande Uses Pardon For Woman Who Killed Violent Husband
French President Francois Hollande on Sunday agreed to reduce the prison sentence of Jacqueline Sauvage whose conviction for the murder of her violent husband has stirred public opinion in a rare use of a presidential pardon in France. 
Ashley Gebbie who weighs just six stone suffered black eyes bruising and a damaged eye socket at the hands of boyfriend Alan Crozier
Mumoftwo Sarah Nash was killed by Lee Guntrip before he killed himself at her home in Berkhamsted last Thursday
Paul Prescott subjected his thenpartner of more than six years to violence in their home after his betting habit landed him in debt
The yearold was stabbed in the head and back but fought desperately to protect his mum by throwing items at their attacker
The reality star didnt know she was pregnant until she suffered a miscarriage at four and a half months
Patricio Marre Avila killed himself after the sickening attack and his girlfriend is recovering in hospital
Ive since married someone else but although hes lovely hes not my type and its a dull and passionless relationship
Dame Justice Hogg stunned experts and ignored pleas from social services when she handed little Ellie Butler back to her parents
Dominic McCluskey admitted assaulting his ex who has bravely spoken up against the beast
Recently retired senior judge Dame Mary Hogg said at the time she was impressed by Ben Butler and described him as thoughtful
Hannah Hillman told police Butler was so furious when they split up that he kicked and punched her in public in broad daylight
William Mack camped out in Leanne Walls loft overnight before launching his sickening attack the following morning while their baby daughter lay just metres away in another room
Now Im tempted to get back with him. Or should I fight to keep my new man Im and I hate being on my own
The Pornhub described videos feature a voice explaining the scene including the clothing and positions of those onscreen
Actress Amber has filed for a temporary restraining order and the next hearing in the case will be held on Friday
Alison Miles miraculously survived the attack which took place after her husband Kevin found out she was intending to set up home with her boyfriend
The woman has been pregnant for more than which is most of her adult life and has been unable to keep any of her children
Kirsty Bearfield says she told him to leave before he chased her up the stairs and punched her in the face
Antoni Neto stabbed his petrified victim in the lungs and bowel after ripping off her nightie when she refused to have sex with him
The Italian car manufacturer provoked fury after the handbook which advised on the length of womans skirts and legs was distributed with all new vehicles in Argentina
During the sentencing of Nicola Nyamanhindi the unnamed pilot said the company has been forced to change staff training due to the threat to cabin crew safety
The actresss former wife has released a statement and backed Amber in her bitter battle with Johnny Depp
At one point he stopped the brutal attack and went downstairs to see their monthold daughter who was playing in another room
Dawn Walker had been sentenced for a previous assault on two police officers less than three weeks before
Holly Bradbury had finally escaped her exlover after a relationship lasting almost two years but it is feared that she was haunted by memories of bitter rows with him
The actress who claims estranged husband Johnny Depp hit her in the face with an iPhone was allegedly arrested after an argument with her ex
USA TODAY a division of Gannett Satellite Information Network LLC.
A man charged with stabbing a Calgary doctor last week is set to see a forensic psychiatrist. Continue reading
After reading the charge through a Cantonese interpreter provincial court Judge Jim Ogle asked the accused if he understood the charge. Continue reading
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Jin Qing Huang is facing charges for the murder of Dr. Tiejun Huang . Continue reading
A panel reviewing domestic violence deaths in Saskatchewan is to begin looking at cases next month. Continue reading
New Start Counselling has also launched a new poster campaign called On being a better man to help bring awareness of domestic violence. Continue reading
A Florida woman cleared of wrongdoing in the shooting death of her husband talks about the night she was forced to kill her soulmate in selfdefence. Continue reading
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Police believe they are investigating a case of domestic violence after a man was stabbed at a residence in the citys northwest. Continue reading
A Calgary mothers commonlaw husband has been charged in her murder which police believe was the result of an ongoing argument. Continue reading
This week Calgary police said domestic violence calls are up per cent over the fiveyear average a Calgary women is working to help victims with her new business that takes a unique approach. Continue reading
Police have released a sobering set of statistics suggesting Calgary cases of domestic violence this year are likely to be on par with high levels seen in . Continue reading
There are gaps in the implementation of the domestic violence act Centre for Social Research CSR director Ranjana Kumari said on Tuesday.
Stridhan is movable or immovable assets received during the lifetime by a woman either prior to marriage or at the time of marriage or at child birth.
Challenging the domestic violence complaint filed by estranged companion Rhea Pillai tennis star Leander Paes said that she was already married to Sanjay Dutt when she linked up with him.
There are promises galore for voters in Ahmedabad East constituency with fringe political parties and Independent candidates promising justice for aggrieved husbands and lavish lifestyle for the poor in their manifestos.
In a significant ruling Kerala High Court has held that a woman is entitled to get protection under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act even if she was in a livein relationship.
In a significant ruling Bombay High Court has held that a woman can file a complaint of cruelty under the Domestic Violence Act against female family members too and not just the male relatives.
In a significant ruling Bombay High Court has held that a woman can file a complaint of cruelty under the Domestic Violence Act against female family members too and not just the male relatives.
In a significant order the Bombay High Court has held that a wife can file an application for specific reliefs under the Domestic Violence Act only while remaining in a domestic relationship.
The petition filed by two women including a senior citizen has challenged the validity of section q of the DV Act according to which the definition of respondent is limited to adult male members.
In a move to put greater onus of culpability on dowry takers the government is amending a law to enhance punishment for such people.
The SC bench passed the ruling while dealing with a matrimonial dispute of a couple who are senior citizens of the capital.
Lack of awareness among women of provisions of protection of women from Domestic Violence Act was a major reason behind them falling victims to domestic violence according to District Collector Mini Antony.
A woman can be prosecuted under the Domestic Violence Act the Delhi High Court has ruled.
A woman who is living with her brothers can take refuge under the Domestic Violence Act in case of any harassment to her a Delhi court has said.
Each year we advocate that Congress continues to invest in essential programs that serve survivors of.
NNEDVs coalition members are the U.S. state territory domestic violence coalitions.
While some may argue that hashtag activism or activism through social media is not real or effective the National Network to End Domestic Violence NNEDV disagrees. Through centering social change in social media we can dismantle power structures that perpetuate injustices.
This morning the Supreme Court held that a reckless domestic assault is a misdemeanor crime of violence for the purposes of limiting access to firearms in their opinion for the Voisine v. United States case. The National Network to End Domestic Violence NNEDV celebrates this decision as a victory for victims and survivors.
Today is National HIV Testing Day. And while NNEDV stands with HIV organizations and promotes testing we also recognize that for some individuals getting an HIV test can be impossible or dangerous. Women living with HIV face domestic violence at a rate higher than the general population at more than percent. And women experiencing domestic violence have an increased risk for acquiring HIV because they may not be able to negotiate condom usage may be forced to use drugs or have sex with other partners or because their partner has sex with others. For some survivors they may intentionally be infected as a way for their partner to maintain control even if the survivor doesnt know they are positive.
Over the last two decades domestic violence has emerged as one of the most serious problem faced by women in Kerala. They are experiencing physical and psychological violence not only from their inlaws but also often from their intimate partner.This scenario underlines the need for the effective implementation of Domestic Violence Act which came into force in October . The definition of DV has been made wide enough to encompass every possibility of abuseharm to the woman. It has been welcomed by all since it provides for the first time civil remedies to women by way of protection orders residence orders and orders for monetary relief in the event of a domestic violence incident.The Act is basically meant to provide protection to the wife or female live in partner from violence at the hands of the husband of male liveinpartner or his relatives. Domestic violence under the Act includes actual abuse or the threat of abuse whether physical sexual verbal emotional or economic. Harassment by way of unlawful dowry demands to the women victim or her relatives would also be covered under the definition of domestic violence.MAIN FEATURES OF THE ACT
For its effective implementation the necessary mechanisms have to be put in place and the modalities of redressal firmed up. A campaign on Domestic Violence Act has already been initiated by the Social Justice Department womens organisations Kudumbashree LSGIs and NGOs in Kerala and some domestic incident reports have already been filed.
Role and function of the CentralState Government under the Act has been specified in section of the Act. They are as follows.
Complaint can be made against any adult male person or his relation also women who have been in a domestic relationship with aggrieved women for example husband or male partner or motherinlaw.
Anyone who has the knowledge of the violence happening can give complaint information. Only a woman can file a complaint of Domestic Violence under the Act.
Name and Address of Women Protection Officers Appointed as per the Act to Protect Women from Domestic Violence
Website Designed and Maintained by Centre for Development of Imaging Technology CDIT
Rosemary Purcell Swinburne University of Technology and James Ogloff Swinburne University of Technology
Gael Jennings University of Melbourne and Margaret Simons University of Melbourne
Fron JacksonWebb The Conversation Michael Courts The Conversation and Emil Jeyaratnam The Conversation
Associate Professor Orygen the National Centre of Excellence in Youth Mental Health University of Melbourne
Professor of Forensic Behavioural Science Director of the Centre for Forensic Behavioural Science Swinburne University of Technology
Fron JacksonWebb The Conversation Michael Courts The Conversation Emil Jeyaratnam The Conversation and Wes Mountain The Conversation
When Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings held a mens rally against domestic violence in he gained national attention for inspiring men to take responsibility for what had been traditionally seen as a womens issue. But the mayor wasnt satisfied with awareness efforts alone. He wanted hard numbers.
A new smartphone app alerts donors to the need for hotel rooms when local shelters for victims of domestic violence are full.
While the decision to speak publicly about her past was difficult Abi Ferrin believes she can serve as a role model for a largely faceless cause.
Susan Hawks efforts have gotten mixed reviews from grieving moms who are troubled by the legal systems limitations.
The ProtectHer Project a firstofitskind initiative in the country will be available to all high schools next school year to teach athletes about respect and boundaries.
A conference on domestic violence and sexual assault this week in Dallas will educate law enforcement victim advocates and others who work in those areas.
Domestic abuse victim advocates say they have stepped up their efforts in February which is Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month
Three men graduated Thursday from a firstofits kind initiative aimed at setting violent domestic abusers straight.
As the selfappointed spokesman for the citys antidomestic violence movement Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings gets a lot of phone calls about domestic abuse. But one he received earlier this month stunned him.
Police say her exhusband fatally shot her in Wilmer a few hours after she attended their grandsons birthday party.
Many often fail to report attacks out of embarrassment and fear that they wont be taken seriously by authorities.
A new study by a University of Texas at Dallas criminologist found that its nearly impossible to predict which juveniles will become murderers. 
One father of two who completed a program says that while it cant solve the problem of domestic violence on its own it provides a good starting point.
Dallas and Harris counties each had women killed in domestic violence incidents last year tied for the most in the state according to the Texas Council on Family Violence.
Organizers hope to capitalize on the national uproar over domestic abuse with events that include a pancake breakfast and an HBO documentary.
Workers in the Dallas area say theyre scrambling for resources to handle the increased number of women needing assistance.
Police say he fatally shot her on the same day they were to appear in court in their pending divorce case.
Police say the woman was changing her locks when her exboyfriend showed up and they started arguing.
Religious leaders are trying to break the silence about domestic violence among their flock. 
Police arrested a man suspected of killing his mother in the Red Bird area and theyre searching for a suspect in a separate killing in Far East Dallas.
This isnt the first time highprofile athletes have spoken out against domestic abuse. But perhaps now thanks to a shocking video the nations listening.
Dallas police and SWAT officers were at the home of a woman who reported being assaulted by her adult son.
Kathleen Storms husband tried to kill her and then himself. But his mission only half succeeded. 
Brenda Joiner who was visiting relatives at the home was charged with two counts of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon one count of possession of a dangerous drug and one count of unlicensedpossession of a firearm by a felon.
Police said the yearold was fatally shot Sunday by a man who then tried to kill himself. He was taken to a local hospital and later died. Police believe it was a domestic incident.
Daniel Andre Thomas monthold daughter died of bluntforce injuries according to the medical examiners office.
Halfway through its yearlong series The Dallas Morning News examines the heavy toll domestic homicides have taken on the community.
The investigation of Pallavi Dhawan accused of killing her son raises questions about whether cultural misunderstandings led to her arrest. Frisco police say they acted properly.
Brandon Hughes is accused of shooting Lahomer Anderson in her apartment early Monday while her daughter and granddaughter hid upstairs.
A private gun range has agreed to store the guns once Dallas County starts taking them from domestic batterers.
They promise to ramp up enforcement and confiscate guns from convicted abusers and those under protective orders.
Officials reacted after The Dallas Morning News reported that county officials fail to enforce laws that prohibit batterers from having guns.
Jonathan Masin who police said was killed Saturday by his exgirlfriend may have had a romantic connection with another woman who was also killed.
Robert Coleman will face a grand jury to determine if charges will be filed against him in the death of Felicia Jones.
Experts say children who lose a parent at the hands of a loved one struggle with anger fear and loss.
A report shows more than children lose parents to domestic violence homicides each year but surviving children are not classified as victims making them hard to find and follow. 
Their boss at Whataburger said the two had just eaten breakfast there together last weekend like everything was perfect.
Family members said they know nothing about the woman accused of killing her exboyfriend Willie Henderson.
Crandall police Sgt. Nick Pitofsky and his wife Vanessa appeared to have a turmoilfree life but were dealing with private tension at home.
As part of the Deadly Affection series three convicted murderers share why they killed someone they say they loved. 
We are trailing nailing and jailing them state District Judge Rick Magnis says of the initiative one of several being used to combat domestic violence.
The mother accused in the killing is out on bond. Her lawyer plans to seek an expert opinion on the cause of the childs death.
Police discovered the body of fifthgrader Arnav Dhawan wrapped in cloth in the bathtub of the home he shared with his parents.
Agency officials are reviewing their involvement to see if anything could have been done differently before the child died.
Melinda Lynn Muniz is accused of killing Grace Lillian Ford who died Jan. of homicidal violence. 
Cedric McFail shot Melissa Williams who had just picked up her two children ages and . Then he killed himself.
He was found dead miles away a short time later apparently of a selfinflicted gunshot wound.
There were several domestic offenses reported to Dallas police over the weekend as there are most weekends. The incidents occurred all over Dallas from Oak Cliff to East Dallas to North Dallas. The victims included children and adults.
Duncanville police have arrested a year veteran of the Dallas police department on a family violence charge.
Police found a suicide note at the twostory brick home on River Birch Drive but they are not releasing its contents. 
Raising community awareness is a necessary first step but changing behavior will be a lot harder. 
Dallas County state district judge Carlos Cortez was scheduled to be back on the bench Monday for the first time since he was arrested for allegedly choking and threatening to kill his girlfriend last month.
Each year we advocate that Congress continues to invest in essential programs that serve survivors of.
NNEDVs coalition members are the U.S. state territory domestic violence coalitions.
While some may argue that hashtag activism or activism through social media is not real or effective the National Network to End Domestic Violence NNEDV disagrees. Through centering social change in social media we can dismantle power structures that perpetuate injustices.
This morning the Supreme Court held that a reckless domestic assault is a misdemeanor crime of violence for the purposes of limiting access to firearms in their opinion for the Voisine v. United States case. The National Network to End Domestic Violence NNEDV celebrates this decision as a victory for victims and survivors.
Today is National HIV Testing Day. And while NNEDV stands with HIV organizations and promotes testing we also recognize that for some individuals getting an HIV test can be impossible or dangerous. Women living with HIV face domestic violence at a rate higher than the general population at more than percent. And women experiencing domestic violence have an increased risk for acquiring HIV because they may not be able to negotiate condom usage may be forced to use drugs or have sex with other partners or because their partner has sex with others. For some survivors they may intentionally be infected as a way for their partner to maintain control even if the survivor doesnt know they are positive.
The owner of this website www.topix.com has banned the country or region your IP address is in IN from accessing this website.
It was a little less than a year ago when disturbing images of NFL player Ray Rices domestic abuse thrust violence towards women into our national conscience. While the news headlines and nightly cable news discussions on the topic have subsided to a degree combating the problems of domestic assault and sexual assault remain in the forefront of my agenda.
The Legislature recently passed A of which I was a prime sponsor known as the Sexual Assault Survivor Protection Act of . Experts in the field of sexual violence state that one of the biggest hurdles to combating sexual assault is the lack of reporting by the victims. The complex emotions that assault victims may experience including guilt shame embarrassment and fear all contribute to the failure to press charges against their attacker. RAINN the Rape Abuse Incest National Network estimates that percent of sexual assaults in the United States are not reported to authorities with a resultant percent of assailants never spending a day in jail and free to assault again. Prior to the passage of A sexual assault victims were unable to get protection if they had not pressed charges with passage of the Sexual Assault Survivor Protection Act of the courts may issue a temporary protective order regardless of whether the victim has filed criminal charges. The bill prohibits the alleged offender from having any contact or communication including personal written telephone or via electronic device with victims and their family members employers and employees. A was passed by the Assembly in February and passed by the Senate last month. I anticipate that the bill will be signed into law soon. 
I recently had the honor of accepting an appointment by State Supreme Court Chief Justice Stuart Rabner to the Ad Hoc Committee on Domestic Violence. The committee includes representatives from the three branches of government with one member of each party from both houses of the Legislature. The twentyseven person committee represents a wide range of backgrounds and experience with domestic violence including judges lawyers law enforcement and New Jersey Coalition for Battered Women. We have met and are continuing to meet to critically analyze the States efforts and policies on combating violence and aiding victims looking at what we do well in the State and what could be improved. The committee is working to draft policies and legislation and make recommendations to the court system to provide excellent and consistent services across the State. 
As part of my commitment to addressing the issue of domestic violence I hosted a roundtable discussion at Kean University on May th with stakeholders from the profession of nursing including chief nursing officers and hospital executives school nurses advanced practice psychiatric nurses nursing educators nurse attorneys and the NJ Coalition for Battered Women. As nurses are largest number of healthcare providers in the US they are often the first professional interface with a victim of sexual or domestic violencewhether as a patient in the emergency room or through contact during care for themselves or family members. It is imperative that all nurses are properly educated and able to handle this delicate situation. The topics discussed include current hospital policies course requirements at our schools of nursing and issues concerning protection of our young victims in the school system. The goal of our members is to create an atmosphere where victims of domestic violence know they can openly discuss this issue with any nurse and to create a consistent education model for nurses at all levels. We are also looking at hospital policies that work well for the victims and can be extended across the State. The group will continue to work to reform policies expand education and training for nursing students and active nurses and make recommendations to the Board of Nursing.
I am extremely proud of the work we are doing in the State on the issue of domestic and sexual violence. As a member of the Assembly Women and Children Committee and the Health Committee I will continue to work on policies to protect women men and children who are victims. The adhoc Committee on Domestic Violence and the members of the Nursing Roundtable will continue to work on recommendations to protect all victims. We still have work to do and I remain determined to make sure New Jersey does all it can to protect and support victims
The opinions expressed herein are the writers alone and do not reflect the opinions of TAPinto.net or anyone who works for TAPinto.net. TAPinto.net is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied by the writer. Click
CRANFORD The Union County College Foundation is hosting a cocktail reception on July in the Victor M. Richel Student Commons on the Cranford campus to support the Foundations Close the GapCampaign.
Thecampaign was developed to support UCCs strategic initiative to help shrink the ever growing achievement gap that exists for African American .
CRANFORD NJ The Cranford Jaycees hosted its annual Firecracker FourMiler Monday July in Nomahegan Park.
WESTFIELD NJ The th Annual Sweet Sounds Downtown Jazz Festival taking place Tuesday nights in July and August from p.m. to p.m. will kick off on July with free outdoor concerts by five bands at locations throughout Downtown Westfield. Rain date July .
CRANFORD NJ The Cranford Jaycees hosted its annual Firecracker OneMileFunRun Monday July in Nomahegan Park.
CRANFORD NJ Cranford residents receive degrees as well as undergraduate students who earned deans list honors for the spring semester.
University of Vermont Danielle Manginelli graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Professional Nursing.
CRANFORD NJ A proposal for the demolition of some or all of the cabins at the Cranford West campsite came before the Cranford Township Committee at a workshop meeting this week.
DPW director Steve Wardell said The cabins are in bad shape there is bounce in the floors the doors are not flush some doors are broken off and the cooks cabin is rough.
Over the Fourth of July weekend the New Jersey Manufacturing Extension Program Inc. NJMEP and Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey CIANJ are launching their second annual food drive as a Manufacturing Cares project to benefit the Community FoodBank of New Jersey.
More than . tons of food were collected for needy families last year and NJMEP and CIANJ expect this .
UNION COUNTY Union County Department of Human Services gave a SHOUT out to students looking to get more involved with businessesorganization and institutions in Union County while burnishing their skills this summer by applying for volunteer positions.
Union Countys SHOUT the Students Helping OUT program offers a wide range of resources to help high school students complete .
In the first version of her story Grace Costa says that on the night after Christmas in her exboyfriend broke into her house hid behind her bedroom door and then attacked her as she and her two grown childrena son and a daughterwere about to eat dinner. In the second version its still the night after Christmas but it might be and only her daughter is at home with her. Theres a halfeaten apple on the floor of the kitchen she remembers asking her daughter if shed thrown it toward the garbage and missed. She also remembers thinking that shed left the outside light on and then it was off.
Costa whose name has been changed describes the night in disjointed phrases. She cries and then stops. She spirals out from the story into another and it takes some nudging to get her to return to the original. She knows she somehow got wrapped in a cord and she comes back to this over and over. It was a phone cord she thinks. I dont know where that cord came from she says. Then later I dont know where he got that cord. Her hands were bound somehow and then she fell to the ground. She was inside and then she was outside. She remembers her exboyfriend punching her daughter in the face blood spurting from her nose.
Local newspapers said the police arrived when she was on the ground. She was down then up. Maybe down again. Thrown against the car hard. Punched. Strangled. She was trying not to black out. There was blood and that cord and her daughter. The police werent there and then they were. The night comes in flashes an image at a timeapple blood cordbut the pieces never fit together into a whole. Instead they hang untethered in her mind. I dont remember much of anything half the time she says.
Costa has a mild brain injury from that night though she does not recall this exact diagnosis. She also has vertigo hearing loss poor memory anxiety headaches ringing in her ears which she describes as a constant electrical signal and a hip that causes her to limp sometimes which she believes came from being hurled against her car. In light of her other injuries she hasnt had her hip treated.
Fifty per cent of domesticviolence victims are strangled at some point in the course of their relationshipoften repeatedly over yearsand the overwhelming majority of strangulation perpetrators are men. Those strangled to the point of losing consciousness are at the highest risk of dying in the first twentyfour to fortyeight hours after the incident from strokes blood clots or aspiration choking on their own vomit. Such incidents can cause brain injurymild or traumaticnot only by cutting off oxygen to the brain but because they are often accompanied by bluntforce trauma to the head. Still victims of domestic violence are not routinely screened for strangulation or brain injury in emergency rooms and the victims themselves who tend to have poor recollections of the incidents are often not even aware that theyve lost consciousness. This means that diagnoses are rarely formalized the assaults and injuries are downplayed and abusers are prosecuted under lesser charges.
Gael Strack the chief executive officer of the Training Institute on Strangulation Prevention is one of the domesticviolence communitys most prominent voices on strangulation and its attendant issues. In when she was the assistant district attorney in San Diego two teenage girls were killed on her watch as she puts it. In the weeks before one of the girls deathshe was stabbed in front of her girlfriendsshe had been strangled. The police were summoned but when they showed up she recanted and no charges were filed. The other girl was strangled and set on fire. Both girls had sought domesticviolence services and had developed safety plans. Strack believed that San Diego was at the forefront of aggressive domesticviolence intervention. They even had a dedicated domesticviolence council and court. We had specializations everywhere Strack says.
Strack and Casey Gwinn the cofounder of the Training Institute and her boss at the time felt responsible for the girls deaths in some way. What had they missed What would have kept the girls alive Strack went back and studied the case files of three hundred nonfatal domesticviolence strangulation cases. Strangulation turned out to be a critical marker. Not only did it dramatically increase the chances of domesticviolence homicide but only fifteen per cent of the victims in the study turned out to have injuries visible enough to photograph for police reports. As a result the officers often downplayed the incidents listing injuries like redness cuts scratches or abrasions to the neck. And emergency rooms tended to discharge victims without CT scans and MRIs. What Strack and the domesticviolence community understand today is that most strangulation injuries are internal and that the very act of strangulation turns out to be the penultimate abuse by a perpetrator before a homicide. Statistically we know now that once the hands are on the neck the very next step is homicide Sylvia Vella a clinician and a detective in the domesticviolence unit at the San Diego Police Department says. They dont go backwards.
In many of those three hundred strangulation cases Strack also saw that the victims had urinated or defecatedan act she chalked up to their fear. She spoke to an emergencyroom physician named George McClane who offered her a very different view. Urination and defecation are physical functions like sweating and digestion that happen below our consciousness and are controlled by the autonomic nervous system. Sacral nerves in the brain stemthe final part of the brain to expirecontrol the sphincter muscles. So urination and defecation werent a sign of fear McClane showed Strack but rather evidence that every one of those victims had been mere moments away from death. And each one of those cases had been prosecuted as a misdemeanor.
Strack made it her mission to train those in the domesticviolence fieldfrom police officers to dispatchers to shelter workers to attorneyson the signs of strangulation. Since the midnineteennineties she and Gwinn have travelled the country holding trainings sessions that cover anatomy investigation prosecution and victim safety in strangulation cases Gwinn estimates that theyve trained more than fifty thousand people. In Strack and Gwinn helped to launch the Training Institute on Strangulation Prevention with a grant from the Office of Violence Against Women. Based in San Diego the Institute conducts fourday sessions to train the trainers with the help of an advisory group that includes doctors nurses judges survivors police officers and prosecutors.
In Gwinn Strack and several other leading voices in the domesticviolence community submitted briefs to the Supreme Court sentencing commission outlining the particular danger of strangulation and suffocation. Last year the Supreme Court added language to its sentencingcommission report that specifically addressed strangulation and suffocation recommending increased prison time for those found guilty. Today thirtyeight states prosecute strangulation as a felony and every jurisdiction that has prosecuted strangulation as a felony with a multidisciplinary team has seen a drop in homicides according to Gwinn. Maricopa County in Arizona for example saw its domesticviolence homicide rate drop by thirty per cent between and . Maricopa County Attorney Bill Montgomery told me When you look at the objective data you could say where we have focussed on domesticviolence strangulation cases and improved our ability to investigate charge and prosecute we have also seen a significant corollary drop in domesticviolence homicides.
Still for any kind of prosecution both strangulation and brain injury need to be recognized and diagnosed. And from a medical standpoint those first twentyfour to fortyeight hours after strangulation are crucial for victims according to Jacquelyn Campbell the lead author on a new study that examines the effect of brain injuries from domestic violence on victims central nervous systems. Sylvia Vella who wrote her dissertation on strangulation remembers a woman from her research who had such severe bruising around her neck and ear that Vella sent her immediately to the emergency room where doctors discovered a dissected carotid artery. The woman called Vella from the hospital and said that shed been put in a secure room under a pseudonym. No one knows why she didnt have a stroke Vella says. The physicians were like I cant believe she survived. 
While strangulation is now well documented in medical literature traumatic brain injury is only starting to be addressed in the larger domesticviolence community. The vast majority of domesticviolence victims who show signs of T.B.I. never receive a formal diagnosis in part because they rarely have visible injuries and so emergency rooms dont generally screen them for it. Were really good now if a kid comes in with an athletic injury or someones been in a car accident about working people up for postconcussive syndrome Campbell says. Such symptoms include vision and hearing problems seizures ringing ears memory loss headaches and blacking out. But somehow were not as good with victims of domestic violence she says. Were not saying O.K. did you lose consciousness for those bruises Have you had prior strangulations andor head injuries So we need to do a better job of applying that protocol to abused women.
There is an emergencyroom screening tool that aims to identify victims of domestic violence with a potential T.B.I. called HELPPS but its use is neither widespread nor standardized. Audrey Bergin the director of a domesticviolence advocacy group called the DOVE Program at Northwest Hospital in Maryland says that while the HELPPS tool isnt used in their emergency room a nurse reviews patients medical records in their domesticviolence cases and looks for possible T.B.I. events. Such women would have been labelled difficult in the recent past even by her staff members she wrote in an email. The police may dismiss them as being drunk the states attorney may think they have mental illness. Even the medical profession may dismiss them as being overdramatic. We have been able to intervene on their behalf to help other agencies understand that it is the T.B.I. that is causing some of these behaviors and symptoms.
Strack also points out how the emotional component of T.B.I. in cases of domestic violence complicates the lives of survivors. Veterans for example have the benefit of a support network when theyre injured. Family friends medical personnel and fellowsurvivors are all explicit supporters of the injured party. But domestic violence continues to be seen as a mostly private issue. One woman I spoke with whose ex had been found guilty of torture and was given a life sentence talked about the shame she felt knowing that shed ended up in an abusive relationship. I was profoundly embarrassed she says. You think of someone whos poor whos uneducated who doesnt have resources. I thought if I could get him to change back I wouldnt have to tell people about it. Strack says this emotional component can haunt victims for years. That trauma of knowing someone you love is willing to take your last breath she says. How do you live with that
Rachel Louise Snyder is the author of the books What Weve Lost Is Nothing and Fugitive Denim. She first contributed to the magazine in .
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement effective January and Privacy Policy effective January . Your California Privacy Rights The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used except with the prior written permission of Cond Nast. Ad Choices
Each year we advocate that Congress continues to invest in essential programs that serve survivors of.
NNEDVs coalition members are the U.S. state territory domestic violence coalitions.
Today the National Network to End Domestic Violence celebrates Senate passage of Comprehensive Immigration Reform legislation S. the Border Security Economic Opportunity and Immigration Modernization Act which will make our country safer for victims of domestic violence.
Immigrant women are particularly vulnerable to abuse in their homes when they lack current legal immigration status said Kim Gandy President and CEO of NNEDV. Abusers exploit this vulnerability to maintain power and control and to keep victims silent. This bill helps victims come out of the shadows and is badly needed to keep victims safe and provide stability.The Senate bill enhances victim safety by increasing the number of visas available each year for immigrant victims who assist in the investigation or prosecution of designated crimes including domestic violence U visas and broadens the eligibility for those visas to additional crime victims including victims of child and elder abuse.Currently there are just too few of these special visas to allow immigrant victims of domestic violence to flee their perpetrators. This bill recognizes the great need for these lifesaving visas and will go a long way toward increasing safety and justice in our communities said Gandy. The bill would also allow victims to maintain their own work authorization independent of an abusive spouse would shorten the wait period for work authorization and clarifies immigrant victims eligibility for housing assistance all provisions that will increase victims ability to achieve longterm economic independence apart from the abuser.Once victims are free from abuse their battle is only half over said Gandy. They need to be able to find jobs and housing to that they can remain independent and safe with their children. NNEDVs member state domestic violence coalition leaders were in Washington DC this month to discuss the needs of immigrant victims with their Congressional delegations said Gandy. Today we celebrate this step and look forward to working with the U.S. House of Representatives to pass a similar bill that meets the needs of victims of violence.
Today NNEDV mourns the passing of Senator Frank Lautenberg a statesman and champion for victims of domestic violence. Among many accomplishments Senator Lautenberg authored legislation that keeps guns out of the hands of convicted batterers. We have lost a true champion today said Kim Gandy President and CEO of NNEDV. Because of Senator Lautenbergs work victims of domestic violence are safer. He lived with purpose and will be missed terribly.
NNEDV is pleased by Facebooks announcement of steps being taken to ensure that Facebook is a safe place for all participants especially and including women. NNEDV is pleased that that Facebook will update their guidelines to include violence against women as a violation of its Community Standards increase training on reviewing hateful and harmful speech increase accountability of those who post hateful and reprehensible content about women and work with other groups to ensure that content that is violent toward women not be acceptable on Facebook.
Bruises broken bones and psychological scars are what most people think about when they hear of domestic violence. What many dont know is that victims of domestic violence often suffer overwhelming financial losses caused by an intimate partner. Forcing the victim to leave job after job getting her fired running up high family debt and hiding or stealing joint assets raise barriers for a woman trying to break free. The result of financial abuse can be damaged work histories ruined credit scores homelessness and sometimes abject poverty. This makes it hard to leave an abusive relationship and for those who do manage to escape the financial damage can last for years long after the bruises have healed.
NNEDV anticipates votes in the U.S. Senate this afternoon on firearms legislation which would be a critical step in protecting victims of domestic violence dating violence sexual assault and stalking from gun violence. More than three women a day on average are killed by an intimate partner and guns play a large role in the level of lethality. Access to firearms dramatically increases the risk of intimate partner homicide compared to instances where there are no weapons and abusers who possess guns tend to inflict the most severe abuse on their partners. People are fed up with violence in this country. Fed up with fear and fed up with anger. We know the statistics we know the solution said Kim Gandy NNEDV President and CEO. Now we just need Senators to vote to protect womens lives. The ToomeyManchin amendment to expand background checks needs votes to pass.
Domestic violence is a type of abuse. It usually involves a spouse or partner but it can also be a child elderly relative or other family member.
It is hard to know exactly how common domestic violence is because people often dont report it. There is no typical victim. It happens among people of all ages. It affects those of all levels of income and education.
Police in England and Wales are on the verge of being overwhelmed by staggering increases in reports of domestic abuse inspectors say.
Recorded cases rose between and Her Majestys Inspectorate of Constabulary HMIC said.
It said this had led to excessive workloads and affected the quality and speed of investigations in some forces.
Meanwhile a separate HMIC report found out of forces must improve their protection of vulnerable people.
HM Inspector of Constabulary Zoe Billinghams report is a followup to one published by HMIC in March which highlighted significant weaknesses in the service police gave domestic abuse victims.
The new report notes improvements since then including a increase in domestic abuse related crimes recorded by police from in the year to August to in the year to March .
Explaining why this is an improvement the report says the rise could be partly due to better recording by police and forces actively encouraging victims to come forward.
There has also been a determined effort by police to make domestic abuse a priority the report adds.
Lexy Godden told BBC live she was married to a man who subjected her to domestic violence.
I was in a relationship for years the violence got really bad when I got pregnant with my daughter. He tried to strangle me. 
He said he wasnt going to do it again. He threw a battery at me just before I gave birth and abused me again when I had my son. 
Eventually I thought this isnt right I need to leave. I want to live a normal life. I was worried about my son and daughter as well. Youre in your own little bubble and theyve taken everything away from you. 
When I went back to pick up my clothes the police werent very compassionate and kept telling me to hurry up in case he comes back. So I forgot half the clothes that I wanted to take. 
I would always say get out of the relationship. Just go because its not worth it.
Sussex Police which dealt with Ms Godden says it will not comment on individual cases but did say stopping domestic abuse remains a priority. 
The report notes the enormous number of people affected by domestic abuse with calls to police in England and Wales in the months to March .
Louisa Rolfe of the National Police Chiefs Council and temporary deputy chief constable of Avon and Somerset Police said many police forces were working really hard to prioritise domestic abuse cases.
New officers are being trained many forces are investing more in their specialist teams but also fundamentally were making sure that every frontline officer has the right skills and the right tools available to them to deal with this effectively because not every case will go to a specialist team. 
Violent physical sexual psychological or emotional abuse including threats and intimidation in your home or elsewhere by your current or former partner or any other adult family member.
It can also include financial abuse such as a partner controlling your use of money or running up debts in your name.
Men and women can both be perpetrators and victims of domestic abuse and victims are encouraged to call the police.
In the government extended the definition of domestic violence so that young people aged and would be included. Wording to cover coercive control was also introduced.
In its separate report on protection of vulnerable people HMIC graded all forces in England and Wales rating good requires improvement and four inadequate. No force was rated outstanding.
The four forces rated inadequate were Bedfordshire Essex Staffordshire Surrey.
Forces use different definitions of vulnerable but criteria can include age disability and being a victim of repeated offences.
Jane Keeper from the domestic abuse charity Refuge said more resources were needed for police to prevent a further slippage in standards of investigation.
The invasion of Iraq in was not a last resort and there was no imminent threat from Saddam Hussein a longawaited report finds as relatives of service personnel killed say never again must so many mistakes be allowed to sacrifice British lives.
It was a little less than a year ago when disturbing images of NFL player Ray Rices domestic abuse thrust violence towards women into our national conscience. While the news headlines and nightly cable news discussions on the topic have subsided to a degree combating the problems of domestic assault and sexual assault remain in the forefront of my agenda.
The Legislature recently passed A of which I was a prime sponsor known as the Sexual Assault Survivor Protection Act of . Experts in the field of sexual violence state that one of the biggest hurdles to combating sexual assault is the lack of reporting by the victims. The complex emotions that assault victims may experience including guilt shame embarrassment and fear all contribute to the failure to press charges against their attacker. RAINN the Rape Abuse Incest National Network estimates that percent of sexual assaults in the United States are not reported to authorities with a resultant percent of assailants never spending a day in jail and free to assault again. Prior to the passage of A sexual assault victims were unable to get protection if they had not pressed charges with passage of the Sexual Assault Survivor Protection Act of the courts may issue a temporary protective order regardless of whether the victim has filed criminal charges. The bill prohibits the alleged offender from having any contact or communication including personal written telephone or via electronic device with victims and their family members employers and employees. A was passed by the Assembly in February and passed by the Senate last month. I anticipate that the bill will be signed into law soon. 
I recently had the honor of accepting an appointment by State Supreme Court Chief Justice Stuart Rabner to the Ad Hoc Committee on Domestic Violence. The committee includes representatives from the three branches of government with one member of each party from both houses of the Legislature. The twentyseven person committee represents a wide range of backgrounds and experience with domestic violence including judges lawyers law enforcement and New Jersey Coalition for Battered Women. We have met and are continuing to meet to critically analyze the States efforts and policies on combating violence and aiding victims looking at what we do well in the State and what could be improved. The committee is working to draft policies and legislation and make recommendations to the court system to provide excellent and consistent services across the State. 
As part of my commitment to addressing the issue of domestic violence I hosted a roundtable discussion at Kean University on May th with stakeholders from the profession of nursing including chief nursing officers and hospital executives school nurses advanced practice psychiatric nurses nursing educators nurse attorneys and the NJ Coalition for Battered Women. As nurses are largest number of healthcare providers in the US they are often the first professional interface with a victim of sexual or domestic violencewhether as a patient in the emergency room or through contact during care for themselves or family members. It is imperative that all nurses are properly educated and able to handle this delicate situation. The topics discussed include current hospital policies course requirements at our schools of nursing and issues concerning protection of our young victims in the school system. The goal of our members is to create an atmosphere where victims of domestic violence know they can openly discuss this issue with any nurse and to create a consistent education model for nurses at all levels. We are also looking at hospital policies that work well for the victims and can be extended across the State. The group will continue to work to reform policies expand education and training for nursing students and active nurses and make recommendations to the Board of Nursing.
I am extremely proud of the work we are doing in the State on the issue of domestic and sexual violence. As a member of the Assembly Women and Children Committee and the Health Committee I will continue to work on policies to protect women men and children who are victims. The adhoc Committee on Domestic Violence and the members of the Nursing Roundtable will continue to work on recommendations to protect all victims. We still have work to do and I remain determined to make sure New Jersey does all it can to protect and support victims
The opinions expressed herein are the writers alone and do not reflect the opinions of TAPinto.net or anyone who works for TAPinto.net. TAPinto.net is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied by the writer. Click
CRANFORD The Union County College Foundation is hosting a cocktail reception on July in the Victor M. Richel Student Commons on the Cranford campus to support the Foundations Close the GapCampaign.
Thecampaign was developed to support UCCs strategic initiative to help shrink the ever growing achievement gap that exists for African American .
CRANFORD NJ The Cranford Jaycees hosted its annual Firecracker FourMiler Monday July in Nomahegan Park.
WESTFIELD NJ The th Annual Sweet Sounds Downtown Jazz Festival taking place Tuesday nights in July and August from p.m. to p.m. will kick off on July with free outdoor concerts by five bands at locations throughout Downtown Westfield. Rain date July .
CRANFORD NJ The Cranford Jaycees hosted its annual Firecracker OneMileFunRun Monday July in Nomahegan Park.
CRANFORD NJ Cranford residents receive degrees as well as undergraduate students who earned deans list honors for the spring semester.
University of Vermont Danielle Manginelli graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Professional Nursing.
CRANFORD NJ A proposal for the demolition of some or all of the cabins at the Cranford West campsite came before the Cranford Township Committee at a workshop meeting this week.
DPW director Steve Wardell said The cabins are in bad shape there is bounce in the floors the doors are not flush some doors are broken off and the cooks cabin is rough.
Over the Fourth of July weekend the New Jersey Manufacturing Extension Program Inc. NJMEP and Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey CIANJ are launching their second annual food drive as a Manufacturing Cares project to benefit the Community FoodBank of New Jersey.
More than . tons of food were collected for needy families last year and NJMEP and CIANJ expect this .
UNION COUNTY Union County Department of Human Services gave a SHOUT out to students looking to get more involved with businessesorganization and institutions in Union County while burnishing their skills this summer by applying for volunteer positions.
Union Countys SHOUT the Students Helping OUT program offers a wide range of resources to help high school students complete .
In the first version of her story Grace Costa says that on the night after Christmas in her exboyfriend broke into her house hid behind her bedroom door and then attacked her as she and her two grown childrena son and a daughterwere about to eat dinner. In the second version its still the night after Christmas but it might be and only her daughter is at home with her. Theres a halfeaten apple on the floor of the kitchen she remembers asking her daughter if shed thrown it toward the garbage and missed. She also remembers thinking that shed left the outside light on and then it was off.
Costa whose name has been changed describes the night in disjointed phrases. She cries and then stops. She spirals out from the story into another and it takes some nudging to get her to return to the original. She knows she somehow got wrapped in a cord and she comes back to this over and over. It was a phone cord she thinks. I dont know where that cord came from she says. Then later I dont know where he got that cord. Her hands were bound somehow and then she fell to the ground. She was inside and then she was outside. She remembers her exboyfriend punching her daughter in the face blood spurting from her nose.
Local newspapers said the police arrived when she was on the ground. She was down then up. Maybe down again. Thrown against the car hard. Punched. Strangled. She was trying not to black out. There was blood and that cord and her daughter. The police werent there and then they were. The night comes in flashes an image at a timeapple blood cordbut the pieces never fit together into a whole. Instead they hang untethered in her mind. I dont remember much of anything half the time she says.
Costa has a mild brain injury from that night though she does not recall this exact diagnosis. She also has vertigo hearing loss poor memory anxiety headaches ringing in her ears which she describes as a constant electrical signal and a hip that causes her to limp sometimes which she believes came from being hurled against her car. In light of her other injuries she hasnt had her hip treated.
Fifty per cent of domesticviolence victims are strangled at some point in the course of their relationshipoften repeatedly over yearsand the overwhelming majority of strangulation perpetrators are men. Those strangled to the point of losing consciousness are at the highest risk of dying in the first twentyfour to fortyeight hours after the incident from strokes blood clots or aspiration choking on their own vomit. Such incidents can cause brain injurymild or traumaticnot only by cutting off oxygen to the brain but because they are often accompanied by bluntforce trauma to the head. Still victims of domestic violence are not routinely screened for strangulation or brain injury in emergency rooms and the victims themselves who tend to have poor recollections of the incidents are often not even aware that theyve lost consciousness. This means that diagnoses are rarely formalized the assaults and injuries are downplayed and abusers are prosecuted under lesser charges.
Gael Strack the chief executive officer of the Training Institute on Strangulation Prevention is one of the domesticviolence communitys most prominent voices on strangulation and its attendant issues. In when she was the assistant district attorney in San Diego two teenage girls were killed on her watch as she puts it. In the weeks before one of the girls deathshe was stabbed in front of her girlfriendsshe had been strangled. The police were summoned but when they showed up she recanted and no charges were filed. The other girl was strangled and set on fire. Both girls had sought domesticviolence services and had developed safety plans. Strack believed that San Diego was at the forefront of aggressive domesticviolence intervention. They even had a dedicated domesticviolence council and court. We had specializations everywhere Strack says.
Strack and Casey Gwinn the cofounder of the Training Institute and her boss at the time felt responsible for the girls deaths in some way. What had they missed What would have kept the girls alive Strack went back and studied the case files of three hundred nonfatal domesticviolence strangulation cases. Strangulation turned out to be a critical marker. Not only did it dramatically increase the chances of domesticviolence homicide but only fifteen per cent of the victims in the study turned out to have injuries visible enough to photograph for police reports. As a result the officers often downplayed the incidents listing injuries like redness cuts scratches or abrasions to the neck. And emergency rooms tended to discharge victims without CT scans and MRIs. What Strack and the domesticviolence community understand today is that most strangulation injuries are internal and that the very act of strangulation turns out to be the penultimate abuse by a perpetrator before a homicide. Statistically we know now that once the hands are on the neck the very next step is homicide Sylvia Vella a clinician and a detective in the domesticviolence unit at the San Diego Police Department says. They dont go backwards.
In many of those three hundred strangulation cases Strack also saw that the victims had urinated or defecatedan act she chalked up to their fear. She spoke to an emergencyroom physician named George McClane who offered her a very different view. Urination and defecation are physical functions like sweating and digestion that happen below our consciousness and are controlled by the autonomic nervous system. Sacral nerves in the brain stemthe final part of the brain to expirecontrol the sphincter muscles. So urination and defecation werent a sign of fear McClane showed Strack but rather evidence that every one of those victims had been mere moments away from death. And each one of those cases had been prosecuted as a misdemeanor.
Strack made it her mission to train those in the domesticviolence fieldfrom police officers to dispatchers to shelter workers to attorneyson the signs of strangulation. Since the midnineteennineties she and Gwinn have travelled the country holding trainings sessions that cover anatomy investigation prosecution and victim safety in strangulation cases Gwinn estimates that theyve trained more than fifty thousand people. In Strack and Gwinn helped to launch the Training Institute on Strangulation Prevention with a grant from the Office of Violence Against Women. Based in San Diego the Institute conducts fourday sessions to train the trainers with the help of an advisory group that includes doctors nurses judges survivors police officers and prosecutors.
In Gwinn Strack and several other leading voices in the domesticviolence community submitted briefs to the Supreme Court sentencing commission outlining the particular danger of strangulation and suffocation. Last year the Supreme Court added language to its sentencingcommission report that specifically addressed strangulation and suffocation recommending increased prison time for those found guilty. Today thirtyeight states prosecute strangulation as a felony and every jurisdiction that has prosecuted strangulation as a felony with a multidisciplinary team has seen a drop in homicides according to Gwinn. Maricopa County in Arizona for example saw its domesticviolence homicide rate drop by thirty per cent between and . Maricopa County Attorney Bill Montgomery told me When you look at the objective data you could say where we have focussed on domesticviolence strangulation cases and improved our ability to investigate charge and prosecute we have also seen a significant corollary drop in domesticviolence homicides.
Still for any kind of prosecution both strangulation and brain injury need to be recognized and diagnosed. And from a medical standpoint those first twentyfour to fortyeight hours after strangulation are crucial for victims according to Jacquelyn Campbell the lead author on a new study that examines the effect of brain injuries from domestic violence on victims central nervous systems. Sylvia Vella who wrote her dissertation on strangulation remembers a woman from her research who had such severe bruising around her neck and ear that Vella sent her immediately to the emergency room where doctors discovered a dissected carotid artery. The woman called Vella from the hospital and said that shed been put in a secure room under a pseudonym. No one knows why she didnt have a stroke Vella says. The physicians were like I cant believe she survived. 
While strangulation is now well documented in medical literature traumatic brain injury is only starting to be addressed in the larger domesticviolence community. The vast majority of domesticviolence victims who show signs of T.B.I. never receive a formal diagnosis in part because they rarely have visible injuries and so emergency rooms dont generally screen them for it. Were really good now if a kid comes in with an athletic injury or someones been in a car accident about working people up for postconcussive syndrome Campbell says. Such symptoms include vision and hearing problems seizures ringing ears memory loss headaches and blacking out. But somehow were not as good with victims of domestic violence she says. Were not saying O.K. did you lose consciousness for those bruises Have you had prior strangulations andor head injuries So we need to do a better job of applying that protocol to abused women.
There is an emergencyroom screening tool that aims to identify victims of domestic violence with a potential T.B.I. called HELPPS but its use is neither widespread nor standardized. Audrey Bergin the director of a domesticviolence advocacy group called the DOVE Program at Northwest Hospital in Maryland says that while the HELPPS tool isnt used in their emergency room a nurse reviews patients medical records in their domesticviolence cases and looks for possible T.B.I. events. Such women would have been labelled difficult in the recent past even by her staff members she wrote in an email. The police may dismiss them as being drunk the states attorney may think they have mental illness. Even the medical profession may dismiss them as being overdramatic. We have been able to intervene on their behalf to help other agencies understand that it is the T.B.I. that is causing some of these behaviors and symptoms.
Strack also points out how the emotional component of T.B.I. in cases of domestic violence complicates the lives of survivors. Veterans for example have the benefit of a support network when theyre injured. Family friends medical personnel and fellowsurvivors are all explicit supporters of the injured party. But domestic violence continues to be seen as a mostly private issue. One woman I spoke with whose ex had been found guilty of torture and was given a life sentence talked about the shame she felt knowing that shed ended up in an abusive relationship. I was profoundly embarrassed she says. You think of someone whos poor whos uneducated who doesnt have resources. I thought if I could get him to change back I wouldnt have to tell people about it. Strack says this emotional component can haunt victims for years. That trauma of knowing someone you love is willing to take your last breath she says. How do you live with that
Rachel Louise Snyder is the author of the books What Weve Lost Is Nothing and Fugitive Denim. She first contributed to the magazine in .
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement effective January and Privacy Policy effective January . Your California Privacy Rights The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used except with the prior written permission of Cond Nast. Ad Choices
The recently released MyPlan mobile app serves as a safety decision aid for women facing violence in their intimate relationship.
Ending domestic violence would save would save thousands of lives and approximately . billion in expenses annually.
Physical or sexual violence is a public health problem that affects more than one third of all women globally according to a new report released by WHO.
Read Dr. Rob Schreiners remarks at the Washington DC launch of the NO MORE campaign to end domestic violence and sexual assault.
Circle of is a free app that gives people a new way to connect with trusted friends to stay safe and prevent violence before it happens.
Kaiser Permanente was proud to sponsor the webcast of the mPreventViolence Workshop hosted by the Institute of Medicines Forum on Global Violence Prevention.
To kickoff an online campaign and contest called The Respect Challenge the national nonprofit Futures Without Violence has produced a PSA that features top celebrities expressing their gratitude to a person who taught them a valuable life lesson a lesson in Respect.
The US Preventive Services Task Force released a draft recommendation for routine IPV screening among women of child bearing age.
Obstetriciangynecologists are in a unique position to assess and provide support for women who experience intimate partner violence IPV because of the nature of the patientphysician relationship and the many opportunities for intervention that occur.
On average people per minute are victims of rape physical violence or stalking by an intimate partner in the United States according to new findings released in December by the CDC. 
On July the Institute of Medicine IOM released a report at the US Department of Health and Human Services HHS request to identify critical gaps in preventive services for women. 
The Domestic Violence in the Workplace Conference hosted by the Partnership Against Domestic Violence took place on October in Atlanta Georgia.
Dr. Brigid McCaw and the Family Violence Prevention Program were featured on the local news site OaklandNorth. 
Apps Against Abuse is a national competition to develop an innovative software application or app that provides young adults with tools to help prevent sexual assault and dating violence. 
This minute video illustrates the dangers of chronic exposure to violence on a childs developing brain. 
View this innovative video Break the Silence where real parents and teens discuss the problem of dating violence and how to stop it before it starts. 
As the newlynamed Australian of the Year Lieutenant David Morrison has pledged to focus his efforts in part on eradicating domestic violence building of course on the important groundwork laid by Rosie Batty before him.
Ms Battys personal story of domestic violence had and will continue to have an unprecedented impact on how the public perceived such a complex and urgent problem. 
Here Doyle tells Catherine Keenan Australias Local Hero how her personal memory of domestic violence has shaped her identity and how she found the courage to share it with her community. 
Sometimes in politics a story matters. In the white noise of discussion papers and policy statements a single story can rise up like a flare in the night illuminating an issue with sudden clarity. 
This happened with Trish Doyles maiden speech in the NSW Legislative Assembly. 
Allow me to tell you a story began the newly elected Labor member for the Blue Mountains. 
Picture another place in another time late at night a young girl awake and afraid in her bed trying to still her racing heart and holding her breath. She is listening to footsteps outside her window and is overcome with a sense of dread. 
In the blink of an eye a man stands at the foot of her bed with one finger on his lips indicating Shhh and the other hand holding a rifle.
After that Doyle went on there were screams and gunshots. Ambulances police fear. Later the girl and her brothers and sister arrive at an orphanage where they stay while their mother recovers from the severe beating and internal haemorrhaging administered by their father. 
Doyle thought carefully about telling this intensely personal story so publically. She began writing it at home with her two teenage sons Patrick and Tom around her and the TV on in the background. 
People kept reminding her that a maiden speech is a rare opportunity for a politician to trace who they are and what they stand for.
That particular recollection just came to mind says Doyle. I didnt feel shell shocked or upset by the memory I just thought Wow it feels like that happened to a different person.
Sharing such stories can have a huge impact. Australia is currently conducting an unprecedented national discussion of domestic violence largely because of one story. When Rosie Battys estranged husband Greg Anderson killed her only son with a cricket bat and a knife it recast domestic violence from a distant social problem to a tragedy that pricked us all. 
But domestic violence is a famously silent crime. What gives women like Ms Batty and Ms Doyle the courage to speak so compellingly of what theyve endured
Ms Doyle grew up in public housing in Canberra surrounded by her mothers family and friends. But when her father was violent as he often was they were too scared to take the kids in thats why on that night they went to a kind of orphanage called Marymead. They were split into two houses and Ms Doyle remembers the tears as they were separated. 
She also has one funny memory of her youngest brother crawling out through a cat flap so they could be together again. As the eldest Ms Doyle often played mum and all four kids huddled in her bed. At a recent family gathering she says we had a bit of a laugh about that about how we all stuck together. 
Memories can be the glue that holds people together but memories of domestic violence tend to keep people apart. 
Formed in terror and rarely shared even with those who were there at the time they become the dark secret that makes people feel even more alone. 
I presume that there are quite heartwrenching feelings of sadness and loss that my brothers and sister have Ms Doyle says. But she cannot be sure. They rarely talk about that time.
Last week another memory returned to Ms Doyle from when she had just gone back to school after that terrible night. She remembered her year three teacher Mrs Murray sitting the class down to do creative writing. 
I put my hand up and asked her how you spelt haemorrhage. And I recall her standing there and her face went red and then absolutely white as a sheet and then she started crying and ran out of the room. 
When Ms Doyle was a child she imagined her story of violence belonged only to herself and her family. Now she realises it must have had a rippling effect on many people around her. Domestic violence is a social problem as well as a private one. 
Ms Doyle says she was able to create a path out of that life because education exposed her to a wider world and she hungered to be part of it. She didnt want to be poor she didnt want to be trapped. She went to Macquarie University and decided to make her way into the unknown world of public policy.
But memories work on us in mysterious ways and after university she found herself working for a womens information and referral service where the biggest single issue was domestic violence. 
How did I arrive at this point she asked herself bemused. When her pilot project concluded after two years she left determined to put more space between her personal experience and her professional life.
She went travelling and while in Ireland met Colm the man who would become her husband. They had two boys but back in Australia Colm sunk into a deep depression and attempted suicide. It was his spiralling into psychosis that turned our lives upside down she says. 
He was diagnosed as depressive bipolar with psychotic tendencies and spent years in and out of institutions sometimes living on the streets. 
She could not take care of him and herself and her two boys they separated. These were the hardest nights of her life she says when shed sob her heart out. After all shed been through she was not able to stop her own children getting hurt.
Ms Doyles political career began when she worked as a staffer for her old friend from university days Tanya Plibersek. Later after Ms Doyle had retreated to the beauty of the mountains following the upheaval with Colm she juggled casual teaching with casual staffing. 
She worked for local member Phil Koperberg and when he was departing he suggested she run for his office. She laughed. But she ran in losing respectably. She immediately began campaigning again and spent the next four years determinedly attending functions and listening to anyone who wanted to talk to her. 
Newly admitted to parliament in March of she told her boys and her mum that she would talk about family violence in her maiden speech and they backed her. None of them expected the overwhelming response shes had. 
I have to remain hopeful that we can shift and change things if governments are prepared to talk about the issue of domestic violence.
Ive been inundated with messages on Facebook phone calls to my office emails she says. 
Women and men approach her on the street to thank her for her speech. Mostly people want to say that it was important to tell that story from a childs perspective. A big boofy bloke I know walked up to me in the street and just started crying and threw his arms around me and said Thank you for your courage. I know that feeling. I was that little boy again.
At Ms Doyle is capable and cleareyed. She is obviously pleased that sharing her story has allowed people to feel less alone with their memories but she knows that stories by themselves are not enough. Just before Rosie Batty was named Australian of the Year the Abbott government cut funding for domestic violence services. In NSW the Going Home Staying Home reforms amalgamated womens refuges with homelessness services leading to some closures. 
Theres no use in somebody reading The Daily Telegraph about my story and feeing compelled to do something to change their own situation if they pack a few bags and call a taxi to head off to the refuge and its shut its doors. 
I have to remain hopeful that we can shift and change things if governments are prepared to talk about the issue of domestic violence. 
Stories like Ms Doyles and Ms Battys and thousands of others stories from victims and those at the front line of services need to be regularly heard at the decisionmaking level and be used to inform policy decisions. 
We need a conduit between community and government and thats where I feel I can be helpful Ms Doyle says. 
Catherine Keenan is cofounder and executive director of the Sydney Story Factory and Australias Local Hero .
Labor is increasingly confident its candidate for the WA seat of Cowan Anne Aly will be electedwhich would make her the first female Muslimin Australias parliament.
Malcolm Turnbull wanted an exciting time. Hes got it writes Lateline political correspondent David Lipson.
One of Malcolm Turnbulls key reasons for calling a double dissolution election was to clean out the crossbench for a more functional Senate. The result is anything but.
This service may include material from Agence FrancePresse AFP APTN Reuters AAP CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST Australian Eastern Standard Time which is hours ahead of UTC Greenwich Mean Time
David Gikawa who murdered exgirlfriend Linah Keza at her flat in London last year has become the latest person convicted of a domestic violencerelated killing. How common are such crimes
On average about seven women and two men are killed by their current or former partner every month in England and Wales.
Campaigners have called this death rate a scandal and say victims appeals for help are too often met with apathy disbelief and even hostility by police.
As a snapshot chosen because in most cases the judicial process has run its course below are the stories of eight people killed during just one month September .
Julie Sahin and her daughter Michala Gol were killed by Mrs Gols husband on September.
Sandra Horley CBE chief executive of Refuge said many murdered women were begging for protection before their deaths.
One of the reasons why so many women and children are killed is quite simply because the people who have a legal duty to protect them have failed she said.
The evidence paints a murky picture of a system in chaos a system that does not protect the lives of women and children a system that must be fixed.
Refuge is campaigning for a public inquiry into the response of the police and other agencies to victims of domestic violence.
Ensar Gol repeatedly stabbed his yearold wife at their home in Thame Oxfordshire.
Oxford Crown Court heard the couples threeyearold daughter was in the bedroom where Mrs Gol was killed while their son two was asleep in another bedroom.
When Mrs Sahin and family friend Casey Wilson ran upstairs to defend her he stabbed both of them killing Mrs Sahin.
Gol was jailed for life and told he must serve a minimum of years for the murders.
The court heard he had sent a Facebook message before the killings writing wild Turkish wolf ready to slit their throats.
During the trial prosecutor Dafydd Enoch said Gol was unhappy and homesick but said nothing could explain the cold acts of murder in which he indulged.
In a statement the family described Mrs Sahin as a wonderful and special person who doted on her grandchildren and Michala as a beautiful young mother who only ever wanted the best for her young children.
Melissa Crook died in a house fire in Chatham Kent along with her monthold son Noah and her father Mark.
The fire was started by Miss Crooks expartner Danai Muhammadi who a court heard was filled with spite anger and resentment over their breakup.
Muhammadi from Coventry was jailed for life and must serve a minimum of years for the killings. 
His friend Farhad Mahmud from Maidstone was also jailed for life with a minimum of years behind bars.
Muhammadis girlfriend Emma Smith from Coventry was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to years in prison. 
Fire investigators said Miss Crook had been trying to rescue her son when she died. Her family said she had a beautiful heart.
Miss Crooks mother Amanda Crook who escaped the fire told the BBC there was nothing the police social services or anyone else could do to prevent such killings.
Sashana Roberts was stabbed and strangled in her bathroom by exboyfriend Ezekiel Foster.
Ms Roberts who had three children had tried to end the relationship two weeks previously which police said prompted the attack.
Last year the Metropolitan Police launched Operation Dauntless a continuous improvement plan to change the way it handles domestic abuse.
We know that domestic abuse is consistently underreported and work hard in liaison with our partners to support victims increase reporting and put offenders before the courts a Met spokeswoman said.
We appreciate that for someone living in fear of a partner turning to someone for help can be one of the biggest challenges they face.
We realise how vulnerable victims of abuse feel and often we attend after a long period of unreported abuse the spokeswoman added.
She said the Met had advised the government on changing the definition of domestic violence to include coercive control to ensure all victims know what constitutes abuse and how to report it.
Foster of Brent northwest London was described by the victims mother as very possessive and controlling.
He was convicted of murder and jailed for life with a minimum term of years.
Ms Robertss two youngest children aged one and three at the time were in the house in Cricklewood north London when their mother was murdered.
The Metropolitan Police confirmed it received a number of calls from Ms Roberts in and about Foster.
A spokeswoman said Foster was arrested after each allegation and the best evidence available was given to the Crown Prosecution Service and Foster was charged with common assault in .
Despite the charge Ms Roberts did not feel able to assist with the investigation and ultimately no evidence was offered when the case reached court the spokeswoman said.
The Met said it had made significant changes to the way it investigates domestic abuse after tragic and complex cases such as that of Ms Roberts.
Jennie Leeman was shot five times at close range by her estranged husband David.
After discovering his wife had begun a relationship with another man yearold Leeman killed her with a semiautomatic pistol he had kept illegally hidden at their farm in Parracombe Devon.
A jury at Exeter Crown Court cleared him of murder after he admitted manslaughter on the grounds of loss of control.
Sentencing him to years in prison Mr Justice Butterfield said Mrs Leemans death was a terrible tragedy and a precious life needlessly lost.
The court heard Leeman had become obsessed with his belief that his former wifes new partner was a paedophile though police found no evidence to support this.
The judge said he did not accept that medication Leeman was taking had any effect on his behaviour. He said Mrs Leeman had presented no threat and the defendant acted out of anger and frustration.
Charito Cruz was hit times with a hammer after she ended her relationship with Muhammed Asad Niazi.
Niazi from Kingston southwest London was jailed for life and ordered to serve a minimum of years for the murder which he carried out in front of their young daughter.
Social work managers had ignored requests to visit Ms Cruz shortly before her death leaked council documents suggested.
The NSPCC twice referred her to social services at Kingston Council because of Niazis abuse.
An internal review by the council found that on one occasion a social work manager did not think the case was serious enough to require a home visit.
On the second occasion the manager did not read the referrals but took the documents home to read. Ms Cruz was killed that night.
The council later said new senior managers had been appointed and a significant investment had been made.
Since April the law has required a domestic homicide review to be carried out after every domestic violence death in England and Wales.
Davina JamesHanman director of the charity Against Violence and Abuse and independent chair of several such reviews including that into the death of Charito Cruz said they analyse the way agencies such as the police and social services handle cases. Progress made to prevent future violence is also examined.
She said the benefits of the reviews could include identifying new risk factors.
One factor not widely recognised at present was the length of time someone had pursued their expartner she said citing the example of a man who harassed his ex for six years before killing her.
Ms JamesHanman said public services had made progress but that coordination between them was still missing.
She said the system starts to fall apart when someone experiencing domestic violence also has other problems such as mental health or drug abuse issues.
And she said there was a subculture of women who could not or would not access help such as those with immigration issues and women who are followed everywhere by their partners.
Ms JamesHanman said the term domestic homicide should also include suicides prompted by domestic violence but at present such deaths were rarely treated in this way.
Although men are less likely to be killed by a current or former partner further work is needed to make sure those at risk are identified and helped said Mark Brooks chairman of the charity the ManKind Initiative. 
We as a society need to do more to recognise and accept that men are victims too so we look for signs of domestic abuse in the same way as we would for a female victim.
There is no typical case but male victims often suffer emotional and psychological abuse and can feel as though they have been groomed and isolated from friends and family said Mr Brooks. There may also be physical abuse.
Male victims need to feel they will be believed with more awareness campaigns and escape routes including refuges and safe houses available he said.
A sevenyear inquiry into the Iraq War concludes that peaceful options had not been exhausted and there was no imminent threat from Saddam Hussein.
With domestic violence rising sharply in this country figures released this month show a . increase in the number of victims being abused at home.
Domestic violence kills two women every week and these shocking statistics demonstrate just how important reporting the crime to the police is since abuse usually thrives on secrecy.
Sir Bernard HoganHowe Metropolitan Police Commissioner speaking at City Hall to Mayor of London Boris Johnson confirmed that in the final quarter of there was a . increase in cases of domestic violence attacks with injuries.
Discussing the findings the commissioner admitted that the rise in the number of cases may simply be due to increased reporting. He added We are not going to say its not something we are concerned about but its too early to say its a trend.
Reportedly the Christmas period could also have impacted on the figures as domestic situations flare as families are spending more time together over the holidays.
Ten percent of calls to emergency services come as a result of domestic violence and as MPs are backing a tough new US style law if it is passed could see domestic abuse becoming a specific crime which carries a year prison sentence.
Currently domestic abuse is not categorised as an offence in itself with the abuser usually charged with crimes such as assault and battery or rape. New laws could see victims able to press charges for physical and psychological abuse.
To speak to our confidential experts in family law please call our team in Manchester on and we will get back to you ASAP.
Were a proactive Crumpsall Manchester law firm who put our clients interests at the heartof everything we do.
Talk to us and tell us what you want from a solicitors practice. Were here to help.
Conveyancing Family Law Commercial Litigation Wills Probate Immigration.
A woman has suffered multiple stab wounds during a domestic dispute in Sydneys south overnight. Continuereading
An ugly domestic dispute has spilled onto a British street with a furious woman taking out her rage on a Puegeot hatchback which eventually sped off with her clinging to the roof. Continuereading
A cricket match was held today in memory of Rosie Battys son Luke as a fundraiser to support the fight against domestic violence. Continuereading
A US woman who survived an alleged hour beating by her partner has spoken out in a heartbreaking video posted to Facebook filmed just days after the attack which she believes was meant to kill her. Continuereading
Friends of a young mother who was allegedly attacked by former Lions player Albert Proud have said she is fighting hard for her life. Continuereading
The NSW Police Force has set a new global standard for domestic violence investigations with a new initiative which sees police recording victim statements at the crime scene. Continuereading
Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk has announced she will be approaching Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull about launching a domestic violence awareness campaign which acknowledges male victims. Continuereading
Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk and state MPs have united with Queenslanders in the Brisbane CBD to rally against domestic violence. Continuereading
A woman has been charged with allegedly stabbing her elderly mother to death south of Newcastle last night. Continuereading
American RnB singer Chris Brown will be refused entry to Australia due to his history of domestic violence with the government issuing him formal notice of the decision overnight. Continuereading
Australias housing affordability crisis has left victims of domestic violence with nowhere to go and frightened and battered women are often forced to return to abusive homes. Continuereading
A routine callout for police on the Gold Coast has led to the seizure of thousands of dollars worth of drugs. Continuereading
Former governorgeneral of Australia Dame Quentin Bryce will spearhead a domestic violence overhaul in Queensland following a recent spate of attacks. Continuereading
Victims of domestic violence and abuse aged and will be recognised under a new crossgovernment definition announced by Nick Clegg.
The definition of domestic violence will now includeyoung people under andis the latest action by the government to tackle violence against women and girls.
A change to the official definition of domestic violence used across government will aim to increase awareness that young people in this agegroup do experience domestic violence and abuse.This follows on from the Governments successful Teenage Relationship Abuse Campaign and is backed up by the British Crime Survey which found that yearolds were the group most likely to suffer abuse from a partner.
A Young Peoples panel set up by the NSPCC was also launched today. It will help to inform the governments ongoing work to tackle domestic violence.
By engaging young people in the decisions that affect them we will improve the services being delivered and ensure communities are working together to challenge and tackle this dreadful form of abuse.
This is just one of a number of active steps the government has taken to protect and support women girls and men facing domestic violence including ringfencing nearly million of funding up to for specialist local domestic and sexual violence support services rape crisis centres the national domestic violence helplines and the stalking helpline.
This definition which is not a legal definition includes so called honour based violence female genital mutilation FGM and forced marriage and is clear that victims are not confined to one gender or ethnic group.
Dont include personal or financial information eg your National Insurance number or credit card details.
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v. except where otherwise stated
Amber and Tasva got into an argument on September at SeattleTacoma International Airport. She reportedly grabbed Van Rees arm was arrested and booked for misdemeanor and domestic violence TMZ reported.
There also have been several prior incidents of domestic violence with Johnny in particular there was one severe incident in December when I truly feared that my life was in danger Amber Heard had said in her court declaration
Senior counsel C A Sundaram who appeared for Anita Advani told the court that his client had been living with Rajesh Khanna for years after his estrangement from Dimple Kapadia
Anil Virmanis advocates argued The police has not taken down Virmanis statement despite the case having been registered from last days
After spending a week in custody on accusations of domestic violence Om Puri was finally granted bail and permission to travel overseas.
Aamir Khan may be the king of chat shows on the small screen these days but the actor also knows how to keep his promise. On his popular TV show Aamir had promised Shanno a female cab driver and a victim of domestic violence that whenever he visited Delhi next he would hire her vehicle and the actor did keep his word.
Bollywood heroines have to be objects of desire she says cautioning that if college girls want to dress like her be careful and keep your mobile handy.
After the TV reality show another sort of reality this one much harsher. Reports that Kolkatas Dimpy has walked out of husband Rahul Mahajans house after alleged domestic violence.
One in four British women will experience abuse at the hands of a partner during their lives. 
The same proportion will be sexually assaulted or raped normally by someone they know. 
These shocking statistics are being unveiled by human rights charity Amnesty International which is blaming a culture of tolerance for the epidemic of domestic violence. 
It is also calling on the police and Government to drastically improve the way such crimes are investigated and punished. In the UK violence against women in the family is at crisis point said Amnesty International secretary general Irene Khan. 
Behind closed doors and in secret women are subjected to violence by their partners and close relatives are too ashamed and afraid to report it and are seldom taken seriously when they do.
There were incidents of domestic violence in England and Wales in and new figures reveal the extent to which domestic violence is tolerated in Britain. One in three adults believes hitting a woman is okay under certain circumstances. 
Amnesty International also points to the poor record of prosecutions for such violent crime. 
Less than three out of domestic violence incidents reported to police result in conviction and only one in four are recorded. 
Recent court cases Ms Khan added prove that domestic violence is not treated seriously enough. 
Andrew Dexter for example will serve a minimum of just seven years in jail for the GBH torture and manslaughter of his girlfriend Sharon Franklin. 
The yearold from Nuneaton inflicted an appalling catalogue of injuries upon yearold Ms Franklin who suffered blowtorch burns skull scars and a collapsed lung. But parole laws mean his two life sentences could see him freed in . 
The Amnesty campaign also highlights the crisis in domestic violence across the rest of the world. 
Sex trafficking is also rife with women caught up in global prostitution every year. 
Two women die every week as a result of domestic violence. Our relationship with the police in assisting victims has improved but there is still a long way to go in changing attitudes. 
A Home Office spokeswoman said it was working closely with other government departments to prevent domestic violence happening or recurring to protect and support its victims and to bring offenders to justice. 
She added that the Domestic Violence Crime and Victims Bill currently going through Parliament will modernise the law while Home Secretary David Blunkett has assigned million over three years for new projects. 
We propose to strengthen police powers through a string of initiatives including making common assault an arrestable offence and criminalising the breach of nonmolestation orders.
No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts
It was a little less than a year ago when disturbing images of NFL player Ray Rices domestic abuse thrust violence towards women into our national conscience. While the news headlines and nightly cable news discussions on the topic have subsided to a degree combating the problems of domestic assault and sexual assault remain in the forefront of my agenda.
The Legislature recently passed A of which I was a prime sponsor known as the Sexual Assault Survivor Protection Act of . Experts in the field of sexual violence state that one of the biggest hurdles to combating sexual assault is the lack of reporting by the victims. The complex emotions that assault victims may experience including guilt shame embarrassment and fear all contribute to the failure to press charges against their attacker. RAINN the Rape Abuse Incest National Network estimates that percent of sexual assaults in the United States are not reported to authorities with a resultant percent of assailants never spending a day in jail and free to assault again. Prior to the passage of A sexual assault victims were unable to get protection if they had not pressed charges with passage of the Sexual Assault Survivor Protection Act of the courts may issue a temporary protective order regardless of whether the victim has filed criminal charges. The bill prohibits the alleged offender from having any contact or communication including personal written telephone or via electronic device with victims and their family members employers and employees. A was passed by the Assembly in February and passed by the Senate last month. I anticipate that the bill will be signed into law soon. 
I recently had the honor of accepting an appointment by State Supreme Court Chief Justice Stuart Rabner to the Ad Hoc Committee on Domestic Violence. The committee includes representatives from the three branches of government with one member of each party from both houses of the Legislature. The twentyseven person committee represents a wide range of backgrounds and experience with domestic violence including judges lawyers law enforcement and New Jersey Coalition for Battered Women. We have met and are continuing to meet to critically analyze the States efforts and policies on combating violence and aiding victims looking at what we do well in the State and what could be improved. The committee is working to draft policies and legislation and make recommendations to the court system to provide excellent and consistent services across the State. 
As part of my commitment to addressing the issue of domestic violence I hosted a roundtable discussion at Kean University on May th with stakeholders from the profession of nursing including chief nursing officers and hospital executives school nurses advanced practice psychiatric nurses nursing educators nurse attorneys and the NJ Coalition for Battered Women. As nurses are largest number of healthcare providers in the US they are often the first professional interface with a victim of sexual or domestic violencewhether as a patient in the emergency room or through contact during care for themselves or family members. It is imperative that all nurses are properly educated and able to handle this delicate situation. The topics discussed include current hospital policies course requirements at our schools of nursing and issues concerning protection of our young victims in the school system. The goal of our members is to create an atmosphere where victims of domestic violence know they can openly discuss this issue with any nurse and to create a consistent education model for nurses at all levels. We are also looking at hospital policies that work well for the victims and can be extended across the State. The group will continue to work to reform policies expand education and training for nursing students and active nurses and make recommendations to the Board of Nursing.
I am extremely proud of the work we are doing in the State on the issue of domestic and sexual violence. As a member of the Assembly Women and Children Committee and the Health Committee I will continue to work on policies to protect women men and children who are victims. The adhoc Committee on Domestic Violence and the members of the Nursing Roundtable will continue to work on recommendations to protect all victims. We still have work to do and I remain determined to make sure New Jersey does all it can to protect and support victims
The opinions expressed herein are the writers alone and do not reflect the opinions of TAPinto.net or anyone who works for TAPinto.net. TAPinto.net is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied by the writer. Click
CRANFORD The Union County College Foundation is hosting a cocktail reception on July in the Victor M. Richel Student Commons on the Cranford campus to support the Foundations Close the GapCampaign.
Thecampaign was developed to support UCCs strategic initiative to help shrink the ever growing achievement gap that exists for African American .
CRANFORD NJ The Cranford Jaycees hosted its annual Firecracker FourMiler Monday July in Nomahegan Park.
WESTFIELD NJ The th Annual Sweet Sounds Downtown Jazz Festival taking place Tuesday nights in July and August from p.m. to p.m. will kick off on July with free outdoor concerts by five bands at locations throughout Downtown Westfield. Rain date July .
CRANFORD NJ The Cranford Jaycees hosted its annual Firecracker OneMileFunRun Monday July in Nomahegan Park.
CRANFORD NJ Cranford residents receive degrees as well as undergraduate students who earned deans list honors for the spring semester.
University of Vermont Danielle Manginelli graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Professional Nursing.
CRANFORD NJ A proposal for the demolition of some or all of the cabins at the Cranford West campsite came before the Cranford Township Committee at a workshop meeting this week.
DPW director Steve Wardell said The cabins are in bad shape there is bounce in the floors the doors are not flush some doors are broken off and the cooks cabin is rough.
Over the Fourth of July weekend the New Jersey Manufacturing Extension Program Inc. NJMEP and Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey CIANJ are launching their second annual food drive as a Manufacturing Cares project to benefit the Community FoodBank of New Jersey.
More than . tons of food were collected for needy families last year and NJMEP and CIANJ expect this .
UNION COUNTY Union County Department of Human Services gave a SHOUT out to students looking to get more involved with businessesorganization and institutions in Union County while burnishing their skills this summer by applying for volunteer positions.
Union Countys SHOUT the Students Helping OUT program offers a wide range of resources to help high school students complete .
This article was originally posted on the Herizon House Blog and is republished with the authors permission. 
Shift is an initiative to prevent family violence that originated in Alberta at the University of Calgary. It aims to provide accessible and accurate information to the public and to community leaders on how to ultimately prevent family violence before it occurs. In April they published a report titled Engaging the News Media to Influence Attitudes Norms and Behaviours and Reduce the Rates of Domestic Violence which sheds light on some of the ways that the media could more appropriately portray cases of domestic violence.
With so many eyes on the media news coverage has the ability to play a strongly influential role in our society. In other words what people hear from news sources whether it be on TV online over the radio or in the paper they believe. The April Shift document hypothesized that the Canadian news media inappropriately reports on instances of domestic violence thereby skewing the opinion and influencing attitudes of the general public and policy makers.
News media when related to domestic violence often takes the easy way out. It can be observed that the media tends to portray domestic violence cases as individualized or isolated rather than a thematic and contextually societal issue. Often victims are blamed or excuses are made for the violence. Coverage is typically only seen relating to fatal incidents as opposed to situations involving emotionalpsychological financial or verbal abuse leading to the belief that the latter forms are not abuse at all.
This is not to say that by any means the media is purposely undermining victims of this violent societal epidemic. Domestic violence is difficult to talk about and a stigma exists that it is an issue that should be dealt with privately within the home. It is ironic though that those involved in the business of news media who are often bashed for making things too public and not respecting privacy are subsequently encouraging this unhealthy stigma.
Shifts Engaging the News Media to Influence Attitudes Norms and Behaviours and Reduce the Rates of Domestic Violence provides dozens of examples as to how news media is failing victims of domestic violence. Domestic violence is not better left alone kept secret in the home in the way that victims attempt to hide their scars. A change in the medias treatment of domestic violence cases will most definitely not happen overnight but becoming aware of its failings and how we the public can strive towards a better understanding of the issue as a whole is a step in the right direction.
I strongly agree with you. The media is more interested in sensationalizing the crimes against women. They failed to give preference to survivors of domestic assault. They dont report the memoirs of the survivors. Rather they like breaking news on how a women was assaulted. Once the judgement is made we hear nothing of them they just vanish. 
We say st century is the age of feminism but most of us still live under stress. A social reform wont happen overnight. I understand it takes time. Media has a play on it. 
Marriage is no right to harm a woman. The implications for being caught for domestic assault is criminal. I dont hate men in general because I know a man in my life who is my hero and inspiration my father. There are good men. I dream for that day where all men treat women as persons. 
I hope that media will use their influence to make the general public aware of the this in a more sensible way than sensational way. 
CANADIAN WOMENS FOUNDATION REGISTERED CHARITY RR HOMEPAGE ACCESSIBILITY SITEMAP CONTACT PRIVACY POLICY
Prevalence and Characteristics of Sexual Violence Stalking and Intimate Partner Violence Victimization National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey United States 
NCADV is exempt from federal income tax under the provisions of Section c of the Internal Revenue Code.
WASHINGTON The Supreme Court on Monday upheld the broad reach of a federal law that bars people with misdemeanor domestic violence convictions from owning guns. 
The justices rejected arguments that the law covers only intentional or knowing acts of abuse and not those committed recklessly where a person is aware of the risk that an act will cause injury but not certain it will. As examples the court mentioned throwing a plate in the heat of an argument or slamming a door. 
The case involved two Maine men who said their guilty pleas for hitting their partners should not disqualify them from gun ownership. 
Writing for herself and five other justices Justice Elena Kagan said that Congress enacted the gun law some years ago to close a loophole and prohibit domestic abusers convicted under runofthemill misdemeanor assault and battery laws from possessing guns. She said if the law were read to exclude misdemeanors in which a person acted recklessly it would substantially undermine the provisions design. 
Gunrights groups had argued that Stephen Voisine and William Armstrong III should not lose their constitutional right to bear arms while advocates for victims of domestic abuse pushed to preserve the restriction. 
The case isnt among the more important ones of the term. White House spokesman Eric Schultz said while the Obama administration is pleased with the ruling he suggested it wouldnt have a significant impact on the debate in Congress about gun control a debate renewed by a mass shooting earlier this month that left people dead at a gay nightclub in Florida. 
The case is notable however in part because when it was argued on Feb. Justice Clarence Thomas asked a series of questions from the bench the first time in years that hed asked a question. His questions came less than a month after the death of Justice Antonin Scalia his close friend conservative ally and also a strong supporter of gun rights. 
Thomas expressed concern at the argument that a misdemeanor conviction could deprive someone of their constitutional gun rights pressing a government attorney for any other examples when that could happen. He returned to that issue in a dissenting opinion Monday. 
Justice Sonia Sotomayor joined Thomas dissent in part agreeing that if Congress wanted to cover all reckless conduct it could have written the law differently. 
The two men who were the subjects of Mondays decision were convicted of breaking federal law by possessing firearms following misdemeanor convictions for domestic violence. Both men argued that they should not be barred from gun ownership because their convictions could have been based on reckless action not action that was knowing or intentional. 
Voisine pleaded guilty to assault in after slapping his girlfriend in the face while he was intoxicated. Several years later an anonymous caller reported that he had shot a bald eagle with a rifle. He was then convicted under the gun law and sentenced to a year in prison. 
Armstrong pleaded guilty to assaulting his wife in . A few years later police searching his home as part of a narcotics investigation discovered firearms and ammunition. He was sentenced to three years of probation. 
WASHINGTON The Supreme Court on Monday upheld the broad reach of a federal law that bars people with misdemeanor domestic violence convictions from owning guns. 
The justices rejected arguments that the law covers only intentional or knowing acts of abuse and not those committed recklessly where a person is aware of the risk that an act will cause injury but not certain it will. As examples the court mentioned throwing a plate in the heat of an argument or slamming a door. 
The case involved two Maine men who said their guilty pleas for hitting their partners should not disqualify them from gun ownership. 
Writing for herself and five other justices Justice Elena Kagan said that Congress enacted the gun law some years ago to close a loophole and prohibit domestic abusers convicted under runofthemill misdemeanor assault and battery laws from possessing guns. She said if the law were read to exclude misdemeanors in which a person acted recklessly it would substantially undermine the provisions design. 
Gunrights groups had argued that Stephen Voisine and William Armstrong III should not lose their constitutional right to bear arms while advocates for victims of domestic abuse pushed to preserve the restriction. 
The case isnt among the more important ones of the term. White House spokesman Eric Schultz said while the Obama administration is pleased with the ruling he suggested it wouldnt have a significant impact on the debate in Congress about gun control a debate renewed by a mass shooting earlier this month that left people dead at a gay nightclub in Florida. 
The case is notable however in part because when it was argued on Feb. Justice Clarence Thomas asked a series of questions from the bench the first time in years that hed asked a question. His questions came less than a month after the death of Justice Antonin Scalia his close friend conservative ally and also a strong supporter of gun rights. 
Thomas expressed concern at the argument that a misdemeanor conviction could deprive someone of their constitutional gun rights pressing a government attorney for any other examples when that could happen. He returned to that issue in a dissenting opinion Monday. 
Justice Sonia Sotomayor joined Thomas dissent in part agreeing that if Congress wanted to cover all reckless conduct it could have written the law differently. 
The two men who were the subjects of Mondays decision were convicted of breaking federal law by possessing firearms following misdemeanor convictions for domestic violence. Both men argued that they should not be barred from gun ownership because their convictions could have been based on reckless action not action that was knowing or intentional. 
Voisine pleaded guilty to assault in after slapping his girlfriend in the face while he was intoxicated. Several years later an anonymous caller reported that he had shot a bald eagle with a rifle. He was then convicted under the gun law and sentenced to a year in prison. 
Armstrong pleaded guilty to assaulting his wife in . A few years later police searching his home as part of a narcotics investigation discovered firearms and ammunition. He was sentenced to three years of probation. 
The owner of this website www.topix.com has banned the country or region your IP address is in IN from accessing this website.
In America one woman is fatally shot by a spouse exspouse or dating partner every hours.
The National Coalition Against Domestic Violence NCADV is the voice of victims and survivors. We are the catalyst for changing society to have zero tolerance for domestic violence. We do this by affecting public policy increasing understanding of the impact of domestic violence and providing programs and education that drive that change.
One New York City nonprofit is trying to make it easier for domestic violence survivors to leave.
America has come a long way in treating all domestic violence as serious. To get their firearm rights.
The question that is always asked of victims of domestic abuse is Why dontdidnt you just.
This is what you can do to help people who are still in abusive relationships. 
Hozier offers insight to how and why people stay in abusive relationships and it is complex..
A police officer is killed in the line of duty about every days in the United States.
NCADV Executive Director speaks to media about Chapmans suspension from MLB.Read.
This Survivor Believes Theyre Dead Wrong. Ruth Glenn knows firsthand.Read more.
TRAUMA TO TRIAL SEPTEMBER TEMPE MISSION PALMS HOTEL CONFERENCE CENTER TEMPE ARIZONA
Guiding Principles and Practical Strategies to Respond Effectively to Older Victims of Abuse 
Hozier and Saoirse Ronan team up to raise awareness and funding for DV organizations internationally. Learn more here. 
Amanda was a beautiful fun loving energetic full of life compassionate mother She has young lovely children that she adored who adored her.She is deeply missed by so many 
Autumnwas a US Army Veteran andhad two beautiful daughters that she loved more than life itself.
Courtney was a very beautiful and loving daughter and mother of a month baby girl named Weatherby.I miss her every second of every day.
The man she married was her childhood sweetheart and she loved him until the day he took her life.
Frances Dansby lit up a crowd and had a beautiful smile. Allen was a whiz at any video game. You are both missed fiercely by LaShondra.
Jaimeewas friendly and kind and loved people of all ages. Her smile and eyes were stunning and her warmth was a gift to everyone who knew her.
Jennifer was a mother of daughters whom she adored.Kelsie was involved in volleyball at school and was looking forward to pursuing a singing career and starting high school in the fall.
Kate and Kerri died immediately. It was Kerris th birthday. She died wearing a birthday hat. Kayla lived more days and inspired a community to start the NEW LIFE NEW HOPE FOUNDATION helping.
She always tried to have a smile on her face no matter how bad the situaion was.
Lindy was one of the most kind caring and loving people a person could ever know.Her sense of humor and down to earth personality was what made her who she is and what people loved her for. 
Lorrie was brilliant a reader who raised her children in the library and in bookstores. She crocheted blankets for friends and family. She danced to Bon Jovi in the kitchen and let us drink the.
Michelleloved her children and her life was taken at the age of at the hands of their father and her husband.
Nalishaloved her family specifically her son who was years old at the time of her death.She had beautiful dimples and an infectious smile.
Pam brought joy and love to all of the many lives she touched and her tragic death left a hole in the lives of many. She is greatly missed.
Patricia was a loving giving person.She loved dancing and being with her family and was especially proud of her monthold daughter Makenzi.
Please come get me was the tragic last text seen of the teen to his girlfriend before he and his mother were shot dead by his stepfather.
Shawnas legacy lives on through her amazing daughter and through the many friends and family members whose lives have been thoroughly enriched for simply having known her.
Shenia was a beautiful person who loved to bake spend time with her children and family. She was putting herself through schoolto make her dream of giving her her children a great life.
Tasha loved everyone and gave her love freely.You did not need to see her to feel her presence her laughter filled the room and her love radiated.
Venus was a loving mother of two daughters they were the center of her life.Venus had a smile and personality that would light up a room.
She was an amazing mother to her kids and and even more amazing grandmother to her grandkids.
Mediation assumes both parties will cooperate to make agreements work the victim has always cooperated with the abuser abusers never cooperate yet are often very skilled at making others.
We need to encourage police discretion in the matter of women who at first glance may seem to be the offender.
Research suggests that access to firearms in the home increase the risk for violent death.
NCADV is exempt from federal income tax under the provisions of Section c of the Internal Revenue Code.
Purpose of this training was to provide more knowledge to participants on domestic violence consequences of domestic violence who can require the protection order judicial procedure to decide upon the request as well as measures and their duration.
During this training mainly were presented issues and dilemmas faced by judges relating to standard procedural actions on protection against domestic violence as well as apply properly legal provisions regarding procedures and deadlines for deciding on requests for protection orders.
Also were discussed the procedures for deciding on request for protection order types of protection order measures and their duration execution and consequences for not executing a protection order.
During this training were used practical cases where participants had the opportunity to gain the best practices in this area.
Beneficiaries of this training were judges of basic court and professional associates.
nXrEWDhbMmMtjrjvqtmEl
Unfortunately we continue to hear about cases of domestic violence in the local national and international news almost every day. As you probably know domestic or intimate partner violence affects people in all walks of life from lowincome families to blue collar and middle class families to high earners and celebrities. It is a pervasive societal problem that impacts individuals and their families of all races and religions from around the world. It is a serious criminal justice economic public health and mental health issue.
A World Health Organization Fact Sheet on Violence against Women reports that a country study on womens health and domestic violence found between and of women reported physical or sexual violence by a husband or partner and many women said that their first sexual experience was not consensual in rural Peru in Tanzania in rural Bangladesh and in South Africa.
A study by the United Nations finds that in all nations of the world violence against women persists as a pervasive scourge endangering womens lives and violating their rights. The study says that such violence also impoverishes families and communities drains government resources and restricts economic development.
For public policy or advocacy groups weve compiled a Policy Brief on Supporting Workers Experiencing Domestic Violence as well as a Legislative Summary Sheet of US Bills on Domestic Violence and the Workplace link.
It is sad that we hear about domestic violence in the news so much. And to think that most cases go unreported is even more sad. October is Domestic Violence awareness month and some good support is being spread here in the UK.
The owner of this website www.hetv.org has banned your access based on your browsers signature befcaffua.
A spate of family murders in Victoria has pushed the issue of domestic violence to the forefront of the states election campaign.
But it is not only in Victoria. Across Australia a spotlight is being shone on the failure of government agencies to protect women and children from violent partners and fathers.
The murder of Melbourne woman Kelly Thompson by her expartner in February this year was not unusual. On average one woman is killed every week across Australia by a current or former partner according to the Australian Institute of Criminology.
Ms Thompson was stabbed to death in her home by Wayne Wood who then killed himself. 
In the months preceding her death she had spoken to police about Woods violent behaviour many times and he had regularly breached a police intervention order that was supposed to prevent him going within m of her house.
Her story highlighted how courts and police often fail women and children when they are in most need of protection.
Six months after she was killed Ms Thompsons parents joined Victorias leading family violence organisations on the steps of the Victorian parliament to speak out at the launch of the No More Deaths campaign.
Wendy Thompson said the police miserably failed her daughter. And theyve failed two people that are now dead and families that are shattered. And it should never have happened she told ABC TV.
The No More Deaths campaign has called on Victorias political parties to commit to wideranging policies to keep women and children safe ahead of the November election.
All three of Victorias parties the Coalition Labor and The Greens attended the launch. The Greens have adopted much of the campaigns platform the Labor Party has promised a royal commission into family violence and the Coalition government has announced a Am m m action package.
The commitments have not come too soon says Domestic Violence Victoria chief executive officer Fiona McCormack.
The rates at which Australian women are being assaulted and terrorised are obscene but particularly the number of women and children being murdered in Victoria she says.
A combination of factors made this the right time to launch the campaign in Victoria says senior policy officer at the Federation of Community Legal Centres Chris Atmore.
This year there has been a lot of media attention on several family violence killings that really touched the public and as a consequence touched politicians particularly because two of these killings happened in public says Dr Atmore.
In April yearold Fiona Warzywoda was stabbed to death by her partner Craig McDermott in a busy suburban shopping centre in Melbourne. 
Only hours before she had attended court in relation to an order preventing McDermott from approaching her.
That case really touched the community directly the people in the shopping centre the shopkeepers and there was a public vigil organised by her family says Mr Atmore.
The emergence of Luke Battys mother as an articulate advocate for the rights of women and children at risk has also changed public attitudes she says.
In February yearold Luke was beaten with a cricket bat and then stabbed by his father in front of horrified onlookers at a cricket training session in rural Victoria.
Rosie Batty has emerged as an extraordinary advocate for change politicians have been falling over themselves to meet her says Dr Atmore.
Its almost like a perfect storm We have had a sense that our politicians are taking the issue more seriously in recent months because we have been invited to sit at the table.
Legislators and police have been under pressure in other states and public attitudes about the issue are being questioned.
In Queensland former governorgeneral Dame Quentin Bryce last month said the gravity and severity of domestic violence in that state was far worse than people realised. Dame Quentin is chairing a task force reviewing the service and facilities available to victims of family violence.
In Western Australia the family of murdered indigenous woman Andrea Pickett a mother of children are suing the state government and police service in what lawyers are calling a landmark case. They are suing over the authorities failure to act despite Ms Picketts numerous reports to police about her estranged husbands violence.
In New South Wales the Labor Party says it will establish a specialist court for domestic violence and sexual assault cases if it wins next years state election.
Moo Baulch acting chief executive officer of community organisation Domestic Violence NSW welcomed Labors announcement. However she said many people still view domestic violence as something that happens behind closed doors.
She is disturbed that some media have portrayed Geoff Hunt who in September killed his wife and children on their rural property in NSW and then killed himself as a victim. 
There have been suggestions Mr Hunt had snapped because of the burden of looking after his disabled wife.
In this day and age it is amazing that we will make this kind of excuse for a murder. As a nation we have got a long way to go says Ms Baulch.
The invasion of Iraq in was not a last resort and there was no imminent threat from Saddam Hussein a longawaited report finds as relatives of service personnel killed say never again must so many mistakes be allowed to sacrifice British lives.
Tremendous strides have been made to protect victims and improve criminal justice interventions but there is still little understanding of the root causes of domestic violence and how to prevent it from happening in the first place.
Lana Wells the new Brenda Strafford Chair in the Prevention of Domestic Violence in the social work faculty is leading a communitybased initiative to prevent and ultimately end domestic violence in our society.
If you ask any Calgarian or Albertan they will say they want to see an end to domestic violence says Wells. With the right level of commitment leadership and resources this is a problem that can be solved.
Wells brings a wealth of experience in leading social change movements. She has worked for nonprofit organizations and government and most recently led the Community Investments and Collaborations portfolio at the United Way of Calgary and Area. She holds bachelors and masters degrees in social work from the U of C and a BA in women and religious studies from McMaster University.
As a leader in community change Lana will spearhead a plan to end domestic violence in the next years says Dr. Jackie Sieppert dean of the social work faculty. She will work closely with community leaders collaborate with leadingedge researchers and bring innovative preventive practices to Calgary and Alberta.
Wells will facilitate a broad communitybased engagement process similar to the work that led to Calgarys Year Plan to End Homelessness. Approached through the lens of primary prevention the focus will be on changing attitudes behaviours and cultural norms of communities and populations as well as of individuals.
We need to be looking ahead to the kind of community we want to be says Wells. If we have community leaders citizens educators and politicians standing up and taking action to build understanding of what a healthy relationship is then we will see social change. 
In the short term Wells will work with community stakeholders to determine the full scope and impact of domestic violence in Alberta enrich our understanding about why society has allowed this problem to reach epidemic proportions identify prevention strategies that work and ascertain the most effective levers for change in our community. She will also work with the U of Cs School of Public Policy to identify opportunities for policy development and reform.
Once youve logged in look for the icon throughout your favorite Alltop topics. Click it to add that site to your personal MyAlltop page.
Check your inbox for your activation email. Once youve confirmed your email address youll be able to start adding feeds and sharing your custom url.
News current affairs topical conversations from Australia Asia and the Pacific
News current affairs topical conversations from Australia Asia and the Pacific
Getthelatest coverageoftheAustralianfederalelectionresultfromtheABC.
Advocates are calling for a change to domestic violence policing and laws arguing too many female victims are being punished for acting in self defence.
A Brisbane man is declared a serious violent offender and jailed for eight years for a cowardly attack that left his wife with significant and ongoing injuries.
Parramatta Eels star Semi Radradra is charged with three counts of domestic violence after being arrested at Sydney Airport on Thursday night.
Men at risk of committing acts of domestic violence will have access to crisis accommodation and behavioural therapy under a new ACT Government program.
Opposition Leader Bill Shorten announces million for safe houses to protect women and children fleeing domestic violence.
An international aid organisation says cuts to Australias aid funding could see it fail in its commitment to reduce domestic violence in the Pacific.
Conversations around violence against women are surging in South Korea in response to the murder of a young woman randomly targeted by a man who claimed that women had ignored him all his life.
A man is charged with three counts of murder in what police say was a domestic violence incident after they found the bodies of two children and a woman at a house in Adelaides north.
That domestic violence remains a big issue in Australia even after decades of effort shows what a long journey it will be for us in PNG.
Leesa Jacobs had only been dating her partner for months when he poured petrol over her chest and used his lighter to set her alight.
Senator David Leyonhjelm has hit back at people who find Wicked Campers slogans offensive.
On a day when it was revealed that a yearold Sydney boy had been charged with planning a terrorist attack on Anzac Day a Christianthemed QA panel was asked whether we as a nation are failing to nurture our impressionable youth.
Eight members of one family including a teenager are shot dead in Ohio in what police have described as executionstyle killings.
Australian police are dealing with domestic and family violence matters a week.
The mother of a Melbourne woman murdered by her estranged partner says her daughter died because Victoria Police failed to take the violence perpetrated against her seriously.
The awareness campaign will be rolled out across the country from this weekend to try to change dangerous and entrenched attitudes about violence towards women.
Disturbing new figures highlight the need for more legal assistance for victims of domestic violence in family law cases says National Legal Aid chair Suzan Cox.
In a national first New South Wales introduces a domestic violence disclosure scheme where people at risk can find out if their partner has a history of violent criminal offences.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull announced at a Council of Australian Governments COAG meeting on April that federal state and territory leaders will unite to tackle domestic violence at a national summit in October .
Some victims of domestic abuse are too scared to tell authorities what is happening due to fears they will be deported.
This service includes material from AAP Agence FrancePresse APTN BBC CNN Getty Pacnews Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced broadcast rewritten or redistributed without written consent.
Minister for the Prevention of Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Pru Goward today launched an week public consultation inviting ideas from the domestic and family violence DFV sector community groups and the public on ways to improve responses to victims and perpetrators of DFV in NSW.
Womens participation in the workforce is at an alltime high in NSW but there is still much work to be done on gender equality according to the findings of a new report launched last night by the Minister for Women Pru Goward.
Teachers and students will be given the means to recognise and act on domestic violence with a new toolkit for the mandatory Year to Year Personal Development Health and Physical Education PDHPE syllabus from Term in .
NSW Premier Mike Baird and Minister for the Prevention of Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Pru Goward today announced a million package to target perpetrators and support women men and children who have experienced domestic and family violence DFV.
The NSW Women of the Year finalists have been announced Have your say and celebrate the outstanding contributions of women in NSW.
The NSW Government today announced that a new advertising and community engagement campaign will begin next month to raise awareness about the illegality of underage forced marriage.
Minister for Disability Services John Ajaka will today announce the commencement of the new legislation at Parliament House that will protect people with disability during and following transition to the National Disability Insurance Scheme NDIS and enshrine their rights and inclusion within the community.
Minister for Women Pru Goward today announced in community grants to reduce and respond to domestic and family violence across NSW.
NSW Premier Barry OFarrell and Minister for Women Pru Goward today announced the winners of the NSW Women of the Year Awards.
Launch of the NSW Governments It Stops Here Domestic and Family Violence Framework to drive down rates of domestic violence and better respond to victims when it occurs.
Minister for Women Pru Goward today announced the appointment of eight nongovernment members to the newly established NSW Domestic and Family Violence Council.
Minister for Women Pru Goward today announced a new partnership between Family and Community Services and TAFE NSW to provide education training and professional development for frontline workers who deal with victims of domestic and family violence in NSW.
Minister for Women Pru Goward today announced the establishment of the Mens Behaviour Change Network to act as an advisory body for effective ways of working with men to reduce domestic and family violence.
Members of the public and experts in the field are encouraged to have their say in the final week of thepublic consultation for the NSW Governments It Stops Here Domestic and Family Violence Reforms.
Minster for Women Pru Goward today announced that the NSW Government will commit million over three years to fund NSWs first telephone counselling and referral service for violent or potentially violent men to help reduce domestic violence.
Minister for Women Pru Goward today announced the NSW Government is investing to strengthen the evidence base to prevent domestic violence through three major violence prevention studies.
Minister for Women Pru Goward today announced the first round of successful applicants to be awarded funding under the NSW Governments new Investing In Women funding program.
Minister for Women Pru Goward today encouraged Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities to get online and provide feedback to the NSW Governments reforms to improve the response to domestic and family violence in NSW.
The NSW Government continues to reform and deliver improved services and lives for
vulnerable children young people and families through initiatives in the NSW Budget.
Minister for Family and Community Services Pru Goward today launched Women in NSW the second annual report on the status of women in NSW.
Minister for Family and Community Services Pru Goward today launched a new smart phone app for people who are experiencing domestic and family violence.
Minister for Women Pru Goward will today meet with careers advisers from across NSW to provide new tools to support high school girls into careers in nontraditional occupations.
NSW Premier Barry OFarrell and Minister for Women Pru Goward today announced the winners of the NSW Women of the Year Awards during a special reception at NSW Parliament House
Minister for Women Pru Goward today announced the six finalists for the NSW Premiers Woman of the Year Award.
The NSW Government is boosting support for womens economic participation with for innovative projects that assist women into nontraditional trades.
Minister for Women Pru Goward is encouraging people across the state to get involved and vote for their NSW Woman of the Year.
A global campaign which draws attention to the critical issue of violence against women.
Minister for Women Pru Goward today announced a new approach to tackling domestic and family violence in NSW.
Minister for Women Pru Goward and Minister for Resources and Energy Chris Hartcher today announced a new partnership between Women NSW and Ausgrid.
Minister for Women Pru Goward and Minister for Education Adrian Piccoli recently announced a joint campaign to encourage more women to work in nontraditional trades.
The NSW Government will make a formal apology for forced adoption practices which occurred in New South Wales.
Minister for Women welcomed the final report of the Standing Committee on Social Issues into the trends and issues surrounding domestic violence.
Women in NSW a comprehensive report on the status of women in NSW was launched by Minister for Women Pru Goward on July.
Sponsored content is written by Global News editorial staff without any editorial influence by the sponsor.
Sponsored content is written by Global News without any editorial influence by the sponsor.
Camille Runke had every right to expect the law to protect her. She had a protection order against her estranged husband and had almost regular contact with Winnipeg police.
But when she was shot at close range with a shotgun outside her work on Oct. her name was added to a long list of women killed every year in Canada by someone they used to love.
We want the laws to change Jenn Noone a friend of Runkes in Winnipeg said. And if its going to take Cams story to do it were going to do it.
In there were intimatepartner homicides of the victims were women. Eleven were in Manitoba. And two murders last October in Winnipeg have ignited the conversation about domestic violence and intimatepartner violence. Runkes is one of those.
Over the period of five months Runkehad called police times reporting smashed windows slashed tires and threatening messages. She suspected her estranged husband Kevin Runke was stalking and harassing her.
Camille and Kevin Runke were married in . They seemed like a couple in love. But in the spring of Camille caught Kevin cheating and the marriage was over. Shortly after Camille started reporting the incidents.
In July Camille also applied for a protection order. On her application she wrote he has a rifle.
Protection orders are meant to be one of the tools designed to keep a woman safe. Breaching a protection order is a criminal act and is supposed to help police get offenders off the street faster.
If Kevin came within a certain distance attempted to contact Camille or approached her property he was breaking the law. The problem was gathering the evidence. Camille called police a dozen times after she got her protection order.
The challenge with the Camille case is the nature of what she was calling us for Danny Smyth deputy chief of the Winnipeg Police Service said.
Largely they were propertyrelated offences that had occurred in the middle of the night when no one witnessed them.
Smyth says they suspected Kevin and spoke to him on numerous occasions but there was little else they could do. They needed evidence.
Camille put cameras up around her home she got a secret cellphone and told neighbours to keep watch in an attempt to gather evidence.
And she was scared. She was losing weight. She was getting sick over this Maddie Laberge Camilles sister said.
Thats why protection orders were put in place Anna Pazdzierski manager of Nova House a shelter for abused women said. Who goes out there and dumps nails in front of a persons vehicle These are not things that normal people do.
The Winnipeg Police Service receives over calls a year for domestic violence. Last year the province also received over applications for protection orders. Over half of them were denied.
Selena Rose Keeper of Winnipeg was beaten to death on Oct. . She had applied for a protection order against Ray William Everett . On it she wrote I want to keep Ray away from me.
A protection orders just a piece of paper Pazdzierski said. We need to realize that women fear we need to respond to those protection orders. We need to take them seriously.
In the case of Camille Runke who called police times including a dozen times after her protection order was in place police said they needed evidence to arrest Kevin.
He was covering himself very well Laberge said. So he has sort of figured out how to do this by flying under the radar.
Kevin Runke was charged with breaching the order when he changed addresses but not for actions against Camille.
Statistics obtained by reveal that if police had arrested Kevin Runke for breaching the protection order the chances of conviction would be good.
We know that if a person is charged with a breach of a prevention order their likelihood of being convicted is much greater than the likelihood of all other persons charged for a domestic matter Dr. Jane Ursel from the University of Manitoba said. So rather than a likelihood of per cent conviction or its more likely to vary between to per cent.
But people have to be charged with breaches and Pazdzierski says that is not happening.
In Canada we spend . billion per year on family violence domestic violence. Thats our court systems shelters the police everybody who has to respond to domestic violence Pazdzierski said.
A week before Camille Runkes murder police had recommended criminal harassment charges against Kevin Runke.
Therere limitations to what the law will allow without real evidence Smyth said. Thats why I think intervention and prevention programs still have to be factored into this. We cant just respond and arrest our way out of this problem.
Manitoba has now introduced legislation imposing a mandatory firearm ban on all protection orders and making orders easier to get. It is also testing GPS monitoring and how it can be used in cases of domestic violence.
He wasnt getting counselling. He wasnt getting help. He wasnt getting thrown in jail. You know it was just this perfect storm. And I really feel like we couldve done something more Laberge said hoping her sisters death isnt in vain.
Domestic violence is the willful intimidation physical assault battery sexual assault andor other abusive behavior as part of a systematic pattern of power and control perpetrated by one intimate partner against another. It includes physical violence sexual violence psychological violence and emotional abuse. The frequency and severity of domestic violence can vary dramatically however the one constant component of domestic violence is one partners consistent efforts to maintain power and control over the other.
Domestic violence is an epidemic affecting individuals in every community regardless of age economic status sexual orientation gender race religion or nationality. It is often accompanied by emotionally abusive and controlling behavior that is only a fraction of a systematic pattern of dominance and control. Domestic violence can result in physical injury psychological trauma and in severe cases even death. The devastating physical emotional and psychological consequences of domestic violence can cross generations and last a lifetime.
It is important to note that domestic violence does not always manifest as physical abuse. Emotional and psychological abuse can often be just as extreme as physical violence. Lack of physical violence does not mean the abuser is any less dangerous to the victim nor does it mean the victim is any less trapped by the abuse.
Unfair blame is frequently put upon the victim of abuse because of assumptions that victims choose to stay in abusive relationships see common myths about victims of domestic violence here. The truth is bringing an end to abuse is not a matter of the victim choosing to leave it is a matter of the victim being able to safely escape their abuser the abuser choosing to stop the abuse or others e.g. law enforcement courts holding the abuser accountable for the abuse they inflict.
Anyone can be a victim of domestic violence. There is NO typical victim. Victims of domestic violence come from all walks of life varying age groups all backgrounds all communities all education levels all economic levels all cultures all ethnicities all religions all abilities and all lifestyles.
Victims of domestic violence do not bring violence upon themselves they do not always lack selfconfidence nor are they just as abusive as the abuser. Violence in relationships occurs when one person feels entitled to power and control over their partner and chooses to use abuse to gain and maintain that control. In relationships where domestic violence exists violence is not equal even if the victim fights back or instigates violence in effort diffuse a situation. There is always one person who is the primary constant source of power control and abuse in the relationship.
Every relationship differs but what is most common within all abusive relationships is the varying tactics used by abusers to gain and maintain power and control over the victim. Nearly in women and in men in the United States have experienced rape physical violence andor stalking by an intimate partner or former partner and reported at least one impact related to experiencing these or other forms of violent behavior in the relationship i.e. feeling fearful concern for safety posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD need for health care injury crisis support need for housing services need for victim advocacy services need for legal services missed work or school.
Physical and sexual assaults or threats to commit them are the most apparent forms of domestic violence and are usually the actions that make others aware of the problem. However regular use of other abusive behaviors by the abuser when reinforced by one or more acts of physical violence make up a larger scope of abuse. Although physical assaults may occur only occasionally they instill fear of future violent attacks and allow the abuser to control the victims life and circumstances.
The illustrations found here power and control wheel and here postseparation power and control wheel are particularly helpful tools in understanding the overall pattern of abusive and violent behaviors used by abusers to establish and maintain control over their partners both within and following a relationship. Very often one or more violent incidents are accompanied by an array of these other types of abuse. They are less easily identified yet firmly establish a pattern of intimidation and control in the relationship.
As the wheels illustrate abuse is cyclical. There are periods of time where things may be calmer but those times are followed by a buildup of tension and abuse which usually results in the abuser peaking with intensified abuse. The cycle then often starts to repeat commonly becoming more and more intense as time goes on. Each relationship is different and not every relationship follows the exact pattern. Some abusers may cycle rapidly others over longer stretches of time. Regardless abusers purposefully use numerous tactics of abuse to instill fear in the victim and maintain control over them.
Domestic violence affects all aspects of a victims life. When abuse victims are able to safely escape and remain free from their abuser they often survive with longlasting and sometimes permanent effects to their mental and physical health relationships with friends family and children their career and their economic wellbeing.
These are among the many reasons victims of domestic violence either choose to stay in abusive relationship or feel they are unable to leave. For more examples see Understanding Why Victims Stay below.
Anyone can be an abuser. They come from all groups all cultures all religions all economic levels and all backgrounds. They can be your neighbor your pastor your friend your childs teacher a relative a coworkeranyone. It is important to note that the majority of abusers are only violent with their current or past intimate partners. One study found that of abusers do not have criminal records and that abusers are generally lawabiding outside the home.
There is no one typical detectable personality of an abuser. However they do often display common characteristics.
When it is a viable option it is best for victims to do what they can to escape their abusers. However this is not the case in all situations. Abusers repeatedly go to extremes to prevent the victim from leaving. In fact leaving an abuser is the most dangerous time for a victim of domestic violence. One study found in interviews with men who have killed their wives that either threats of separation by their partner or actual separations were most often the precipitating events that lead to the murder.
The following signs often occur before manifestation of full abuse and may serve as clues to one person in a relationship becoming abusive of the other. Think about the following questions and apply them to your partner. If you can identify with one or more of these scenarios or answer yes to any of the questions below you may be with an abusive partner.
Threats and physical abuse are prevalent in relationship violence often occurring in an escalating cycle.
Look over the following questions. Think about how you are being treated and how you treat your partner. Remember when one person scares hurts or continually puts down the other person it is abuse.
NCADV is exempt from federal income tax under the provisions of Section c of the Internal Revenue Code.
Your free trial has expired. Please register for a regular account.
Domestic violence and AsianAmerican community groups have rallied to support NanHui Jo currently on trial in California for kidnapping her daughter to her native South Korea to escape an allegedlyabusive relationship in the US. Courtesy KACEDASacramento Bee 
AsianAmerican domestic violence and immigrants rights community groups have been rallying to support NanHui Jo a single mother who fled with her daughter to South Korea in order to escape the alleged physical and emotional abuse of thenpartner and the childs father Jesse Charlton only for him to have her arrested and tried for child abduction as soon as she came back to the United States. 
Supporters wearing purple ribbons filled the California courtroom. Supporters circulated petitions and encouraged calls to Yolo County District Attorney and ICE to drop charges. Supporters have also helped with translation emotional support rides food analysis of domestic violence and immigration issues. Most moving however have been the pictures and stories of Asian Americans who survived domestic violence shared on social media using hashtags StandWithNanHui and WeSurvived. 
Jo has been in jail and not allowed contact with her daughter since July. Her former partner a combat veteran of the Iraq War with posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD who has testified in court to grabbing Jo around the throat and throwing her against a wall has been granted custody of their sixyearold daughter. 
Complicating the situation further although Jo has a U Visa application for permanent residency in process which recognizes her status as a victim of crime Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE plans to begin deportation proceedings at the conclusion of this trial which could potentially separate her from her daughter indefinitely. 
Survivors of domestic violence should not be punished for defending themselves protecting their children and rebuilding their lives from the violence of an abuser said Korean American Coalition to End Domestic Abuse KACEDA in a statement. 
According to various studies examined by Asian Pacific Islander Institute on Domestic Violence API Institute to percent of Asian American women have experienced physical andor sexual violence by an intimate partner higher than any other racial group. 
I think NanHuis story is resonating with people the way that it is because domestic violence is an unspoken trauma for so many in our communities Hyejin Shim a volunteer from Korean American Coalition to end Domestic Abuse KACEDA told NBC News. It also provides a glimpse into a horrifying system that criminalizes survivors so people are rightfully outraged by that. 
My mother hid the knives she had to use to prepare food for my sister me behind the microwave bc of PTSD. StandwithNanhui WeSurvived
I StandWithNanHui because my grandmother was disowned by her own family for escaping an abusive marriage and getting a divorce
I StandWithNanHui bc survivors of DV are shamed for not leaving then criminalized when they finally do.
She was in the capital to attend an event to celebrate Womens Political Empowerment Day.
Priyanka accused Rakhis brother Vikram Bidlan of assaulting her and beating her with a belt. 
A hour helpline Saheli aimed at providing support to the female victims of domestic violence and other crimes was launched on Sunday.
The yearold actress was just fiveyearold when she witnessed domestic violence and that has stayed with her. 
There is no presumption that every suicide committed by a married woman in her inlaws house or at her parents house has to be because she was suffering harassment at the hands of her husband or her inlaws the court said.
When children see domestic violence as an everyday occurrence they perceive it to be something normal and natural.
Halle Berry has revealed she was a victim of domestic violence when she was fiveyearold.
A man has been denied any relief from paying interim maintenance to his spouse by a Delhi court which said he was supposed to maintain his wife who happened to be living separately from him due to matrimonial dispute between them.
A court has directed a woman to pay to her estranged husband after she defamed him on Facebook by accusing him of domestic violence.
Mel B has finally broken her silence to refute rumours suggesting her husband has been physically abusing her.
Bullet News is CNNIBNs nonstop prime time bulletin where we bring to you the days top stories from around the world. Be it politics sports entertainment or business catch it here only in minutes.
A study done by the United Nations has produced some alarming results. Six out of Indian men have admitted to having perpetrated violence against their wives or partners.
The National Commission for Women set to propose legalisation of sex trade. NCW chief Lalitha Kumaralangalam on Tuesday said that the commission will propose the same to a Supreme Court constituted panel. According to sources Women and Child Development Ministry does not favour the idea.
CNN name logo and all associated elements and Cable News Network LP LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network LP LLLP displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name andor logo on or as part of NEWS.com does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them. Copyright Network Media and Investments Ltd . All rights reserved.
Although largely hidden domestic violence is reaching epidemic levels with untold costs to society. Alberta has the second highest rate of reported spousal assault in the country twothirds of Calgarians are affected by domestic violence or close to someone who is.
Tremendous strides have been made to protect victims and improve criminal justice interventions but there is still little understanding of the root causes of domestic violence and how to prevent it from happening in the first place.
Lana Wells the new Brenda Strafford Chair in the Prevention of Domestic Violence at the Faculty of Social Work is leading a communitybased initiative to prevent and ultimately end domestic violence in our society.
If you ask any Calgarian or Albertan they will say they want to see an end to domestic violence says Wells. With the right level of commitment leadership and resources this is a problem that can be solved.
Wells brings a wealth of experience in leading social change movements. She has worked for nonprofit organizations and government and most recently led the Community Investments and Collaborations portfolio at the United Way of Calgary and Area. She holds bachelors and masters degrees in social work from the University of Calgary and a BA in women and religious studies from McMaster University.
As a leader in community change Lana will spearhead a plan to end domestic violence in the next years says Dr. Jackie Sieppert dean of the Faculty of Social Work. She will work closely with community leaders collaborate with leadingedge researchers and bring innovative preventive practices to Calgary and Alberta.
Wells will facilitate a broad communitybased engagement process similar to the work that led to Calgarys Year Plan to End Homelessness. Approached through the lens of primary prevention the focus will be on changing attitudes behaviours and cultural norms of communities and populations as well as of individuals.
We need to be looking ahead to the kind of community we want to be says Wells. If we have community leaders citizens educators and politicians standing up and taking action to build understanding of what a healthy relationship is then we will see social change. 
In the short term Wells will work with community stakeholders to determine the full scope and impact of domestic violence in Alberta enrich our understanding about why society has allowed this problem to reach epidemic proportions identify prevention strategies that work and ascertain the most effective levers for change in our community. She will also work with the U of Cs School of Public Policy to identify opportunities for policy development and reform. 
David Gikawa who murdered exgirlfriend Linah Keza at her flat in London last year has become the latest person convicted of a domestic violencerelated killing. How common are such crimes
On average about seven women and two men are killed by their current or former partner every month in England and Wales.
Campaigners have called this death rate a scandal and say victims appeals for help are too often met with apathy disbelief and even hostility by police.
As a snapshot chosen because in most cases the judicial process has run its course below are the stories of eight people killed during just one month September .
Julie Sahin and her daughter Michala Gol were killed by Mrs Gols husband on September.
Sandra Horley CBE chief executive of Refuge said many murdered women were begging for protection before their deaths.
One of the reasons why so many women and children are killed is quite simply because the people who have a legal duty to protect them have failed she said.
The evidence paints a murky picture of a system in chaos a system that does not protect the lives of women and children a system that must be fixed.
Refuge is campaigning for a public inquiry into the response of the police and other agencies to victims of domestic violence.
Ensar Gol repeatedly stabbed his yearold wife at their home in Thame Oxfordshire.
Oxford Crown Court heard the couples threeyearold daughter was in the bedroom where Mrs Gol was killed while their son two was asleep in another bedroom.
When Mrs Sahin and family friend Casey Wilson ran upstairs to defend her he stabbed both of them killing Mrs Sahin.
Gol was jailed for life and told he must serve a minimum of years for the murders.
The court heard he had sent a Facebook message before the killings writing wild Turkish wolf ready to slit their throats.
During the trial prosecutor Dafydd Enoch said Gol was unhappy and homesick but said nothing could explain the cold acts of murder in which he indulged.
In a statement the family described Mrs Sahin as a wonderful and special person who doted on her grandchildren and Michala as a beautiful young mother who only ever wanted the best for her young children.
Melissa Crook died in a house fire in Chatham Kent along with her monthold son Noah and her father Mark.
The fire was started by Miss Crooks expartner Danai Muhammadi who a court heard was filled with spite anger and resentment over their breakup.
Muhammadi from Coventry was jailed for life and must serve a minimum of years for the killings. 
His friend Farhad Mahmud from Maidstone was also jailed for life with a minimum of years behind bars.
Muhammadis girlfriend Emma Smith from Coventry was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to years in prison. 
Fire investigators said Miss Crook had been trying to rescue her son when she died. Her family said she had a beautiful heart.
Miss Crooks mother Amanda Crook who escaped the fire told the BBC there was nothing the police social services or anyone else could do to prevent such killings.
Sashana Roberts was stabbed and strangled in her bathroom by exboyfriend Ezekiel Foster.
Ms Roberts who had three children had tried to end the relationship two weeks previously which police said prompted the attack.
Last year the Metropolitan Police launched Operation Dauntless a continuous improvement plan to change the way it handles domestic abuse.
We know that domestic abuse is consistently underreported and work hard in liaison with our partners to support victims increase reporting and put offenders before the courts a Met spokeswoman said.
We appreciate that for someone living in fear of a partner turning to someone for help can be one of the biggest challenges they face.
We realise how vulnerable victims of abuse feel and often we attend after a long period of unreported abuse the spokeswoman added.
She said the Met had advised the government on changing the definition of domestic violence to include coercive control to ensure all victims know what constitutes abuse and how to report it.
Foster of Brent northwest London was described by the victims mother as very possessive and controlling.
He was convicted of murder and jailed for life with a minimum term of years.
Ms Robertss two youngest children aged one and three at the time were in the house in Cricklewood north London when their mother was murdered.
The Metropolitan Police confirmed it received a number of calls from Ms Roberts in and about Foster.
A spokeswoman said Foster was arrested after each allegation and the best evidence available was given to the Crown Prosecution Service and Foster was charged with common assault in .
Despite the charge Ms Roberts did not feel able to assist with the investigation and ultimately no evidence was offered when the case reached court the spokeswoman said.
The Met said it had made significant changes to the way it investigates domestic abuse after tragic and complex cases such as that of Ms Roberts.
Jennie Leeman was shot five times at close range by her estranged husband David.
After discovering his wife had begun a relationship with another man yearold Leeman killed her with a semiautomatic pistol he had kept illegally hidden at their farm in Parracombe Devon.
A jury at Exeter Crown Court cleared him of murder after he admitted manslaughter on the grounds of loss of control.
Sentencing him to years in prison Mr Justice Butterfield said Mrs Leemans death was a terrible tragedy and a precious life needlessly lost.
The court heard Leeman had become obsessed with his belief that his former wifes new partner was a paedophile though police found no evidence to support this.
The judge said he did not accept that medication Leeman was taking had any effect on his behaviour. He said Mrs Leeman had presented no threat and the defendant acted out of anger and frustration.
Charito Cruz was hit times with a hammer after she ended her relationship with Muhammed Asad Niazi.
Niazi from Kingston southwest London was jailed for life and ordered to serve a minimum of years for the murder which he carried out in front of their young daughter.
Social work managers had ignored requests to visit Ms Cruz shortly before her death leaked council documents suggested.
The NSPCC twice referred her to social services at Kingston Council because of Niazis abuse.
An internal review by the council found that on one occasion a social work manager did not think the case was serious enough to require a home visit.
On the second occasion the manager did not read the referrals but took the documents home to read. Ms Cruz was killed that night.
The council later said new senior managers had been appointed and a significant investment had been made.
Since April the law has required a domestic homicide review to be carried out after every domestic violence death in England and Wales.
Davina JamesHanman director of the charity Against Violence and Abuse and independent chair of several such reviews including that into the death of Charito Cruz said they analyse the way agencies such as the police and social services handle cases. Progress made to prevent future violence is also examined.
She said the benefits of the reviews could include identifying new risk factors.
One factor not widely recognised at present was the length of time someone had pursued their expartner she said citing the example of a man who harassed his ex for six years before killing her.
Ms JamesHanman said public services had made progress but that coordination between them was still missing.
She said the system starts to fall apart when someone experiencing domestic violence also has other problems such as mental health or drug abuse issues.
And she said there was a subculture of women who could not or would not access help such as those with immigration issues and women who are followed everywhere by their partners.
Ms JamesHanman said the term domestic homicide should also include suicides prompted by domestic violence but at present such deaths were rarely treated in this way.
Although men are less likely to be killed by a current or former partner further work is needed to make sure those at risk are identified and helped said Mark Brooks chairman of the charity the ManKind Initiative. 
We as a society need to do more to recognise and accept that men are victims too so we look for signs of domestic abuse in the same way as we would for a female victim.
There is no typical case but male victims often suffer emotional and psychological abuse and can feel as though they have been groomed and isolated from friends and family said Mr Brooks. There may also be physical abuse.
Male victims need to feel they will be believed with more awareness campaigns and escape routes including refuges and safe houses available he said.
The invasion of Iraq in was not a last resort and there was no imminent threat from Saddam Hussein a longawaited report finds as relatives of service personnel killed say never again must so many mistakes be allowed to sacrifice British lives.
Rachel Maddow reports on some of the key developments that took place overnight as House Democrats staged a nearly hour protest in Congress to call for a vote on new gun legislation in the wake of the Orlando shooting massacre.
One in four British women will experience abuse at the hands of a partner during their lives. 
The same proportion will be sexually assaulted or raped normally by someone they know. 
These shocking statistics are being unveiled by human rights charity Amnesty International which is blaming a culture of tolerance for the epidemic of domestic violence. 
It is also calling on the police and Government to drastically improve the way such crimes are investigated and punished. In the UK violence against women in the family is at crisis point said Amnesty International secretary general Irene Khan. 
Behind closed doors and in secret women are subjected to violence by their partners and close relatives are too ashamed and afraid to report it and are seldom taken seriously when they do.
There were incidents of domestic violence in England and Wales in and new figures reveal the extent to which domestic violence is tolerated in Britain. One in three adults believes hitting a woman is okay under certain circumstances. 
Amnesty International also points to the poor record of prosecutions for such violent crime. 
Less than three out of domestic violence incidents reported to police result in conviction and only one in four are recorded. 
Recent court cases Ms Khan added prove that domestic violence is not treated seriously enough. 
Andrew Dexter for example will serve a minimum of just seven years in jail for the GBH torture and manslaughter of his girlfriend Sharon Franklin. 
The yearold from Nuneaton inflicted an appalling catalogue of injuries upon yearold Ms Franklin who suffered blowtorch burns skull scars and a collapsed lung. But parole laws mean his two life sentences could see him freed in . 
The Amnesty campaign also highlights the crisis in domestic violence across the rest of the world. 
Sex trafficking is also rife with women caught up in global prostitution every year. 
Two women die every week as a result of domestic violence. Our relationship with the police in assisting victims has improved but there is still a long way to go in changing attitudes. 
A Home Office spokeswoman said it was working closely with other government departments to prevent domestic violence happening or recurring to protect and support its victims and to bring offenders to justice. 
She added that the Domestic Violence Crime and Victims Bill currently going through Parliament will modernise the law while Home Secretary David Blunkett has assigned million over three years for new projects. 
We propose to strengthen police powers through a string of initiatives including making common assault an arrestable offence and criminalising the breach of nonmolestation orders.
No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts
Mandy Thomas shared her experiences of domestic abuse with actress Louiza Patikas for the controversial story in the BBC Radio soap.
Changes to rules for obtaining legal aid in domestic violence cases have been declared legally flawed by the Court of Appeal.
A man who was horrifically burned with boiling water by his wife has said domestic violence by a woman is nothing to be ashamed of.
Football legend Diego Maradona has been accused of beating his partner in a row about her mobile phone
Government plans to strengthen domestic violence laws to better support victims of psychological and emotional abuse are partly about sending a message that this is a crime we are taking it seriously a Home Office minister told Good Morning Britain. 
The damage inflicted by coercive behaviour in relationships is too often overlooked according to the Shadow Home Secretary. 
Yvette Cooper welcomed the launch of a consultation on strengthening the domestic violence law but said the Government still needs to do more. 
The criminal justice system needs to recognise the damage done by repeated psychological abuse and coercive control which is too often overlooked the Governments agreement to this consultation is a welcome tribute to those who have campaigned hard for change.
But Theresa May just isnt doing enough to reverse the backwards slide in action against domestic violence or support for victims on her watch.
Prosecutions and convictions as a proportion of recorded domestic crime are falling. And over the last four years over perpetrators of domestic violence have been handed only community resolutions with many simply being asked to apologise to their victim.
Coercive and controlling behaviour in relationships could become just as criminal as physical abuse under a proposed new law. 
The Government have put a new offence of domestic abuse out for consultation. 
Launched by Home Secretary Theresa May the consultation will consider whether the current law needs to be strengthened to better protect victims of psychological and emotional abuse. 
The offence will cover behaviour such as threatening a partner with violence cutting them off from friends and family or refusing them access to money. 
Under existing law intimidation of this kind is covered by legislation that covers stalking and harassment but this does not explicitly apply to intimate relationships. 
The Director of Public Prosecutions has said she is incredibly proud of the rise in the conviction rate for domestic violence in recent years.
She said she was pleased so many cases were now settled by offenders pleading guilty meaning the vast majority of victims are spared having to give evidence in court. 
A record three in four prosecutions for domestic violence last year ended in a conviction the Crown Prosecution has revealed.
The Director of Public Prosecutions Alison Saunders will later announce that in . of cases defendants either admitted the offences or were found guilty.
The total number of convictions in was just under up almost on the figure for .
The longer term picture shows a steady rise in conviction rates which have gone from . in to just under in the last year.
According to CPS figures domestic violence which covers a wide range of abusive behaviours between partners spouses and family members now makes up over a tenth of the Services casework. 
Delhi Police said it would issue a second notice to former Law Minister Somnath Bharti who has been booked for attempt to murder domestic violence and other criminal charges.
Radhe Maa is required to record her statements with the police on Friday in the dowry harassment case.
Last week a yearold woman had filed a complaint of domestic violence and dowry harassment against her inlaws and Radhe Maa.
After courting a controversy by posing in a red miniskirt the self styled godwoman has been summoned to appear before the Mumbai Police on Monday in a domestic violence case. An FIR was registered against her for allegedly instigating a womans inlaws to harass her for dowry. 
In June the politicians wife Lipika Bharti had filed a complaint with Delhi Commission for Women accusing him of domestic violence and mental torture since .
Aam Aadmi Party MLA Somnath Bhartis wife Lipika Mitra claimed that she had electronic evidence against her husband adding that the whole controversy had taken a toll on her.
The Aam Aadmi Party on Friday tried to downplay the controversy concerning Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti who has been accused by his wife of domestic violence.
There is no respite for the Aam Aadmi Party. A day after Jitender Singh Tomar was arrested by Delhi Police in a fake degree scam Somnath Bharti has got into trouble. His wife Lipika Mishra has levelled allegations of domestic violence against him filing a complaint with Delhi commission for Women.
No FIR has been filed in the case yet but the senior officers of the Delhi Police are likely to meet and decide the further course of action on Friday.
DCW Chairperson Barkha Shukla Singh said We have called Somnath on June to clarify allegations against him about domestic violence.
India has also identified domestic violence as a crime and provides relief and protection from it albeit to only Women
In yet another embarrassment for the Aam Aadmi Party former Delhi law minister Somnath Bharti is in the line of fire for allegedly indulging in domestic violence and mental torture of his wife.
CNN name logo and all associated elements and Cable News Network LP LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network LP LLLP displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name andor logo on or as part of NEWS.com does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them. Copyright Network Media and Investments Ltd . All rights reserved.
An organization uses clippings from the Domestic Violence episode to sensitize people about gender
When Rashmi Anand spoke of surviving domestic violence she inspired others to do the same 
Women and men both wrote to us about experiences of domestic violence. We asked antiviolence activist Harish Sadani to analyze the responses. 
Rugby league star Semi Radradra will fight allegations that he assaulted his former partner in a series of violent incidents spanning several months.
The Parramatta Eels winger flew in from Fiji on Thursday night and was immediately taken in for police questioning.
He was charged early the following morning with assault causing domestic violencerelated actual bodily harm and two counts of domestic violencerelated common assault.
The latter two charges relate to alleged attacks on his estranged partner Perina Ting in December and May .
Court documents indicate that the most serious incident is alleged to have occurred in early October at Parramatta.
During a brief appearance at Parramatta Local Court on Tuesday the yearold called up in court by his birth name Semi Radradra Waqavatu entered not guilty pleas to all three charges via his lawyer.
Radradra will remain on bail until his matter returns to court on August but will not be required to face court in person on that occasion.
In relation to the matter of Semi Radradra Waqavatu . pleas of not guilty entered to sequences one two and three Magistrate Theo Tsavdaridis said before adjourning the matter.
The court heard an interim apprehended violence order handed to Radradra would continue by consent.
Radradra who was silent throughout his brief court appearance did not respond to questions as he broke through a media scrum on the steps of the courthouse and headed towards a waiting car.
Senatorelect Pauline Hanson has been accused of being caught out using the same cut price milk she says is ripping of Australias dairy farmers. 
A driver has shared his hilarious reaction to a police chase after he was left in a fit of laughter while filming the pursuit from behind the wheel. 
Judge says long sentence for murder of model girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp would not serve justice and paralympian unlikely to reoffend. 
Whats the best way to let the neighbours know the bikies have moved out and you have moved in Buy a dinosaur. 
Discount pharmacies now account for per cent of all pharmacy sales in Australia. Chemist Warehouse has 
Rugby league star Semi Radradra will fight allegations that he assaulted his former partner in a series of violent incidents spanning several months.
The Parramatta Eels winger flew in from Fiji on Thursday night and was immediately taken in for police questioning.
He was charged early the following morning with assault causing domestic violencerelated actual bodily harm and two counts of domestic violencerelated common assault.
The latter two charges relate to alleged attacks on his estranged partner Perina Ting in December and May .
Court documents indicate that the most serious incident is alleged to have occurred in early October at Parramatta.
During a brief appearance at Parramatta Local Court on Tuesday the yearold called up in court by his birth name Semi Radradra Waqavatu entered not guilty pleas to all three charges via his lawyer.
Radradra will remain on bail until his matter returns to court on August but will not be required to face court in person on that occasion.
In relation to the matter of Semi Radradra Waqavatu . pleas of not guilty entered to sequences one two and three Magistrate Theo Tsavdaridis said before adjourning the matter.
The court heard an interim apprehended violence order handed to Radradra would continue by consent.
Radradra who was silent throughout his brief court appearance did not respond to questions as he broke through a media scrum on the steps of the courthouse and headed towards a waiting car.
Senatorelect Pauline Hanson has been accused of being caught out using the same cut price milk she says is ripping of Australias dairy farmers. 
A driver has shared his hilarious reaction to a police chase after he was left in a fit of laughter while filming the pursuit from behind the wheel. 
Judge says long sentence for murder of model girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp would not serve justice and paralympian unlikely to reoffend. 
Whats the best way to let the neighbours know the bikies have moved out and you have moved in Buy a dinosaur. 
Discount pharmacies now account for per cent of all pharmacy sales in Australia. Chemist Warehouse has 
ONE IN THREE CAMPAIGNOne in three victims of family violence is maleIt appears that your web browser does not support JavaScript or you have temporarily disabled scripting. Either way this site wont work without it.
This page contains a selection of recent news articles and commentary about male victims of violence and abuse plus related issues. These articles are presented as a community service and do not necessarily reflect the views of the One in Three Campaign.
Please send any relevant news articles to us by clicking here and we will post them on this page.
A recent Australian study has disproved the claim that men rarely experience violence abuse fear control and coersion after separation.
In October the Australian Institute of Family Studies AIFS released its Experiences of Separated Parents Study part of its evaluation of the family violence amendments by the Federal Government.
The study examined the experiences of two cohorts of parents in and the latter a total of parents who separated between July and December representing parents postreform experience of the family law system.
The data indicate that family violence is a common experience among separated parents with a majority of participating parents in both cohorts reporting either physical or emotional abuse.
These figures make a lie of the oftrepeated claim that men rarely experience postseparation violence for example here here here here here here here and here. There was no statistically significant difference between fathers and mothers in the frequency of reporting having often felt fearful after experiencing physical violence or emotional abuse since separation and fathers were statistically significantly more likely than mothers to report having often felt controlled or coerced after experiencing physical violence or emotional abuse since separation. When it came to severity fathers were also more likely than mothers to report experiencing the highest level of fear control and coersion on a point scale that they felt arising from the focus parents behaviour since separation. Experiences of control and coersion were statistically significantly higher for fathers than mothers.
The full report can be downloaded from aifs.gov.ausitesdefaultfilespublicationdocumentsefvaesps.pdf.
The first time Nicks wife punched him in the face was because he hadnt cleaned the bathtub properly.
At the time I felt that it was my job to fix it Nick says the male mentality is often that you fix things.
It was the year after they married and looking back yearold Nick can see the violence didnt come out of the blue. His wife well call her Imogen was continually picking aggressive verbal arguments with him over minor domestic things such as how hed pegged out the clothes on the clothesline.
One minute shes lying in a foetal position on the floor and the next shes screaming at you that you dont pay enough attention or youve done something wrong he says.
Right from the outset Nick says Imogen worked towards isolating him from his closeknit family.
Statistically one in four women and one in six men suffer from domestic abuse and within these abusive relationships a vast percentage are nonviolent. These relationships operate on the premise of take take take.
Victims are isolated controlled told how to dress what to eat when to sleep. They are not allowed to work and are manipulated by threats of violence rape or the intervention of social services to take away children. They are humiliated and degraded and reality is continuous fear and uncertainty.
This is coercive control. This is domestic abuse and is now a crime in its own right.
The offence of Coercive and Controlling behaviour can be considered if the perpetrators behaviour has had serious effect on the victim meaning that it has caused the victim to fear violence will be used against them on at least two occasions or it has had a substantial adverse effect on the victims day to day activities. The maximum prison term is five years.
That is why the Surrey Against Domestic Abuse partnership has launched a campaign to promote the help and support available to people experiencing domestic abuse. Named Give and Take this campaign also seeks to make friends and family of those who are being abused by a partner or family member more aware of their role in taking action. Domestic abuse can happen to both men and women and regardless of sexual orientation ethnicity age class religion or physical ability.
Throughout the campaign we will be using the hashtag behindcloseddoors on Twitter. Join in the conversation and help us encourage more people to seek support and safety.
. Calling the hour yourSanctuary helpline for information and advice on .
Social justice journalist Ginger Gorman is looking for case studies for a story shes writing on female perpetrators of domestic violence.
The One in Three Campaigns submission to the Senate Finance and Public Administration Committeesinquiry into domestic violence and gender inequality has been published on the inquirys website.
Two recent events in San Diego have once again brought the issue of domestic violence to the forefront.
The first incident which occurred in Tierrasanta on Monday of this week began when a teenage boy heard arguing and a gunshot in his home. Fearful of the situation the youngster climbed out his window and called . Police arrived at the scene and say that they found the boys father who had exited the house holding an assault rifle. Attempts to speak to the man proved futile and he proceeded to shoot himself in the face. Upon entering the home authorities discovered the mans wife who was apparently suffering from the aftereffects of an attempted strangulation.
In another San Diego community a second shooting took place this past weekend which also appears to have its origins in a domestic violence dispute. Police say they received a domestic violence call involving an incident taking place in a parking area across the road from a Carmel Mountain Ranch movie theater. According to witnesses the suspect was armed with a gun and had entered the theater looking for someone. Prior to that the suspect reportedly physically attacked his year old girlfriend. While details are still somewhat sketchy police eventually found him inside the movie house. They say that he responded to a request from the officers to determine if he was armed by lifting his hands but then turned toward one of the officers holding a gun. Police fired striking the man twice.
These are obviously extreme examples of how quickly domestic violence can escalate. More often we find that domestic violence cases involve allegations of assault and battery where it is difficult especially in the heat of the moment for police to determine what really happened. Ordinarily at least one of the participants will be arrested and California has specific proactive laws PC regarding arrests in domestic violence cases. But the fact is that many of these situations are he saidshe said affairs and a domestic violence arrest is not the end of the matter. The evidence in the final analysis may not support the charge and in some cases may reveal that the suspect was in fact the victim.
If you have been charged with domestic violence contact a San Diego domestic violence lawyer with the experience and knowledge to protect your interests.
Mandy Thomas shared her experiences of domestic abuse with actress Louiza Patikas for the controversial story in the BBC Radio soap.
Changes to rules for obtaining legal aid in domestic violence cases have been declared legally flawed by the Court of Appeal.
A man who was horrifically burned with boiling water by his wife has said domestic violence by a woman is nothing to be ashamed of.
Football legend Diego Maradona has been accused of beating his partner in a row about her mobile phone
Government plans to strengthen domestic violence laws to better support victims of psychological and emotional abuse are partly about sending a message that this is a crime we are taking it seriously a Home Office minister told Good Morning Britain. 
The damage inflicted by coercive behaviour in relationships is too often overlooked according to the Shadow Home Secretary. 
Yvette Cooper welcomed the launch of a consultation on strengthening the domestic violence law but said the Government still needs to do more. 
The criminal justice system needs to recognise the damage done by repeated psychological abuse and coercive control which is too often overlooked the Governments agreement to this consultation is a welcome tribute to those who have campaigned hard for change.
But Theresa May just isnt doing enough to reverse the backwards slide in action against domestic violence or support for victims on her watch.
Prosecutions and convictions as a proportion of recorded domestic crime are falling. And over the last four years over perpetrators of domestic violence have been handed only community resolutions with many simply being asked to apologise to their victim.
Coercive and controlling behaviour in relationships could become just as criminal as physical abuse under a proposed new law. 
The Government have put a new offence of domestic abuse out for consultation. 
Launched by Home Secretary Theresa May the consultation will consider whether the current law needs to be strengthened to better protect victims of psychological and emotional abuse. 
The offence will cover behaviour such as threatening a partner with violence cutting them off from friends and family or refusing them access to money. 
Under existing law intimidation of this kind is covered by legislation that covers stalking and harassment but this does not explicitly apply to intimate relationships. 
The Director of Public Prosecutions has said she is incredibly proud of the rise in the conviction rate for domestic violence in recent years.
She said she was pleased so many cases were now settled by offenders pleading guilty meaning the vast majority of victims are spared having to give evidence in court. 
A record three in four prosecutions for domestic violence last year ended in a conviction the Crown Prosecution has revealed.
The Director of Public Prosecutions Alison Saunders will later announce that in . of cases defendants either admitted the offences or were found guilty.
The total number of convictions in was just under up almost on the figure for .
The longer term picture shows a steady rise in conviction rates which have gone from . in to just under in the last year.
According to CPS figures domestic violence which covers a wide range of abusive behaviours between partners spouses and family members now makes up over a tenth of the Services casework. 
The latestnever the lasthorrifying deadly shooting rampage in America was brought to us by Mainak Sarkar a disaffected former UCLA student who murdered Professor William Klug over an imagined slight. Before killing Klug and then himself Sarkar also killed his estranged wife Ashley Hasti. While no one was paying
Yesterday the yearold son of Sarah Palin Track Palin was arrested and charged with domestic violence for allegedly punching his girlfriend in the face. The full police report from the incident can be found below.
In May Ernest Baker Drakeapproved writer and selfappointed internet tastemaker allegedly assaulted and harassed his exgirlfriend Complex Music managing editor Lauren Nostro. The news gained public attention Wednesday night after the pairs mutual friend the writer Meaghan Garvey vaguely tweeted about
Last week Deadspin published a transcript of Greg Hardys NFL hearing wherein a panel of NFL representatives equipped with the CBA rulebook and court transcripts reviewed the domestic violence charges brought against the current Cowboys defensive end by his exgirlfriend Nicole Holder. One of the people on this
On March the NFL conducted a reinstatement hearing for Greg Hardy who had spent most of the previous season on the Commissioners Exempt List after he was accused of assaulting his exgirlfriend Nicole Holder. Deadspin has obtained the transcript of that confidential hearing which youll find at the bottom of
Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones released a statement tonight reiterating the teams support for defensive end Greg Hardy after Deadspin published an account of Hardys alleged assault of exgirlfriend Nicole Holder. That story was based upon hundreds of pages of police reports and court documents many never before
Barefoot and frightened Nicole Holder walked as fast as she could through the darkness and the moment she saw the cops she ran. She headed west on Fifth Street toward North Church away from the Charlotte. N.C. apartment of Greg Hardy a star defensive end then with the NFLs Carolina Panthers. Minutes earlier he
The problem with the internet is that its very easy to get publicity for a good idea or a bad one regardless of it actually existing. Such is the case of the Black Dot Campaignan effort to identify domestic violence victims in need of help by having them draw small black dots on the center of their palms. While
Greg Hardy recently returned from a suspension that he earned for allegedly violently abusing his former girlfriend. Hes come back and has basically said all the wrong things including that hed return guns blazing. You might recall he allegedly threw his thengirlfriend onto a bed covered in guns and threatened
This past Saturday Memphis Grizzlies forward Matt Barnes reportedly drove nearly a hundred miles from Santa Barbara to the Los Angeles home of his estranged wife Gloria Govanwhom he was arrested on suspicion of abusing in to harass and physically attack New York Knicks coach Derek Fisher for being there.
This week the members of Arizona States Alpha Chi Omega sorority divided the internet. The young women dared to take selfies at an Arizona Diamondbacks game instead of focusing their full attention on baseball. Those selfies proved highly controversial for some dumb reason. The least amused was no doubt the
The domestic violence charges against Hope Solo that were dropped earlier this year will return after a higher court in King County reversed a lower courts decision to dismiss them. Solo had been charged with two counts of misdemeanor assault. In January her lawyer successfully argued to a judge that the case
Chris Brown has been denied entry to Australia because his assault on Rihanna for which he was sentenced to five years of probation and six months of community service doesnt square with the countrys feelings about domestic violence. Faced with canceling a lucrative tour Brown is now on Twitter trying to
A Florida woman was arrested Thursday for alleged domestic battery after her husbands waistmounted GoPro camera caught her intentionally striking him in the testicles. According to an arrest report obtained by The Smoking Gun the man had started wearing the camera due to issues in the past with incidents like
The omitted Straight Outta Compton scene of Dr. Dre beating television host Dee Barnes has been found. 
In the late afternoon on Tuesday April a petite Korean mother of one walked into the lobby of the Yolo County Jail wearing army fatigue pants with tears streaming down her face. Convicted by a jury in February shed been locked up in the Northern California holding facility for a total of nine months. In
WNBA star Brittney Griner filed for an annulment of her marriage to fellow WNBA player Glory Johnson yesterday one day after Johnson announced that she was expecting a child. There is a lot going on here so lets refresh our memories with a timeline.
Undefeated welterweight world champ Floyd Mayweather was sued last September by his exfiance Shantel Jackson who alleges he choked her held her prisoner at gunpoint and blackmailed her with nude photos hed secretly taken while she slept. TMZ has obtained Mayweathers texts to his ex submitted as evidence in
TAOS PUEBLO New Mexico Thomson Reuters Foundation Father and son John Tsosie and Ernest Tsosie Jr. travel the American Southwest promoting awareness of domestic violence and abuse on Indian reservations and aiming their message at Native American men.
Here are some facts about Indian communities in the Southwest and elsewhere in the United States.
The Taos Pueblo is considered the oldest continuously inhabited community in the United States and it is a designated UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The Taos Pueblo has about enrolled tribal members and fewer than half live on the reservation. A few families live in the ancient adobe dwellings with no electricity or running water.
To the west the Navajo Nation is the largest sovereign Indian territory in the United States. It is more than square miles square km about the size of Ireland and larger than of the U.S. states with a population of about .
Unemployment in the Navajo Nation is percent and percent of residents live below the official poverty line according to U.S. Census data.
Native Americans have the lowest employment rate of any racial or ethnic group in the United States according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
High school graduation rates among Native Americans are among the lowest of any racial or ethnic population according to the Civil Rights Project a research and policy think tank.
The percentage of homes that are overcrowded on reservations is three to six times higher than those in the United States as a whole according to the Housing Assistance Council a nonprofit advocacy group.
As of more than tribal homes lacked access to basic water sanitation services according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
About one in American Indian homes is without safe and reliable water according to the Indian Health Service.
Engaging in selfcare practices is important for all victim advocates. On a daily basis advocates are exposed to trauma through the stories of the survivors that we work with whether the stories are heard in person in writing over the phone or through social media. Constant exposure to any type of trauma can take a toll on an advocates wellbeing.As advocates we carry these stories in our hearts and usually do not realize that we are also carrying the effects of compassion fatigue.
The NFL on Tuesday will announce million in funding over the next five years to a coalition of nonprofit organizations working to prevent sexual violence.
The first phase of the NFLs donation toRaliance the coalition between the National Sexual Violence Resource Center the California Coalition Against Sexual Assault and the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence will go into effect on July with the awarding of grants worth each to a variety of organizations across the country and one in Guam.
The Supreme Court struck down Texas restrictive abortion laws on June in one of the most important abortionrelated cases in years.
The Court ruled in the case known as Whole Womans Health v. Hellerstedt which served to clarify the decision Planned Parenthood v. Casey. That case concluded that while the states are free to regulate abortion they cannot place an undue burden on womens constitutional right to abortion.
The Supreme Court ruled June that the federal government can ban abusers from possessing guns.
The ruling in Voisine v. U.S. upholds a federal law that prohibits any person convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence from owning a firearm.
The case was brought by two men convicted of misdemeanor assault under state law and later charged with federal crimes for possessing firearms. The plaintiffs Stephen Voisine and William Armstrong argued that their crimes did not count under federal statute because their crimes were reckless not intentional or knowing.
The Courts ruling that a reckless domestic assault counts as a domestic violence misdemeanor means that the federal law remains in place.
The Kentucky General Assembly created a new chapter of state law to establish civil orders for protection of victims of dating violence sexual assault and stalking.
Known as Interpersonal Protective Orders the court measures can be obtained by victims of these crimes or by an adult on behalf of a minor who qualifies. That means a parent can obtain a protection order for a son or daughter being stalked or who has experienced a violent dating situation.
This kind of protective order is long overdue and the General Assembly wisely created the new law. Before this victims who did not have a child with the abuser or who never lived with the abuser could not get protective orders leaving teenagers and others who experienced dating violence with little recourse.
An Australian researcher has been designing an app aimed at to yearold boys to help them create healthy relationships with their peers.
The National Survey of Youth Attitudes reported very disturbing findings about young mens attitudes and behaviours said YSF CEO Cath Bartolo.
Evidence shows that boys and young men are not clear on where to draw the line on what constitutes respect in relationships and what crosses the line in to harm. For example many do not get that coercing a girl into sex is rape.
The app will help boys talk to girls and will give teens insight and advice about helping their friends and maintaining respectful relationships but it also has an important undertone putting a stop to domestic violence.
Other products organizational names or content mentioned on this site may be trademarks registered trademarks andor copyright of their respective organizations and are hereby acknowledged. 
An organization uses clippings from the Domestic Violence episode to sensitize people about gender
When Rashmi Anand spoke of surviving domestic violence she inspired others to do the same 
Women and men both wrote to us about experiences of domestic violence. We asked antiviolence activist Harish Sadani to analyze the responses. 
Delhi Police said it would issue a second notice to former Law Minister Somnath Bharti who has been booked for attempt to murder domestic violence and other criminal charges.
Radhe Maa is required to record her statements with the police on Friday in the dowry harassment case.
Last week a yearold woman had filed a complaint of domestic violence and dowry harassment against her inlaws and Radhe Maa.
After courting a controversy by posing in a red miniskirt the self styled godwoman has been summoned to appear before the Mumbai Police on Monday in a domestic violence case. An FIR was registered against her for allegedly instigating a womans inlaws to harass her for dowry. 
In June the politicians wife Lipika Bharti had filed a complaint with Delhi Commission for Women accusing him of domestic violence and mental torture since .
Aam Aadmi Party MLA Somnath Bhartis wife Lipika Mitra claimed that she had electronic evidence against her husband adding that the whole controversy had taken a toll on her.
The Aam Aadmi Party on Friday tried to downplay the controversy concerning Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti who has been accused by his wife of domestic violence.
There is no respite for the Aam Aadmi Party. A day after Jitender Singh Tomar was arrested by Delhi Police in a fake degree scam Somnath Bharti has got into trouble. His wife Lipika Mishra has levelled allegations of domestic violence against him filing a complaint with Delhi commission for Women.
No FIR has been filed in the case yet but the senior officers of the Delhi Police are likely to meet and decide the further course of action on Friday.
DCW Chairperson Barkha Shukla Singh said We have called Somnath on June to clarify allegations against him about domestic violence.
India has also identified domestic violence as a crime and provides relief and protection from it albeit to only Women
In yet another embarrassment for the Aam Aadmi Party former Delhi law minister Somnath Bharti is in the line of fire for allegedly indulging in domestic violence and mental torture of his wife.
CNN name logo and all associated elements and Cable News Network LP LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network LP LLLP displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name andor logo on or as part of NEWS.com does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them. Copyright Network Media and Investments Ltd . All rights reserved.
Bride tortured to death for dowry School going kid succumbs to his injuries after beaten by father A seventy year old man killed over property dispute Harassment of men in Chandigarh
All these and what not turn to any newspaper at random and you would find the reports of such kind of violence all over the country. These are all what we come to know through different forms of media. There are more such cases which go unreported every day. In fact include the cases which we selfindulge in or the ones which we witness in the neighbourhood but are hesitant in taking even a single step to reduce their occurrences.
In our society violence is bursting. It is present almost everywhere and nowhere is this eruption more intense than right behind the doors of our homes. Behind closed doors of homes all across our country people are being tortured beaten and killed. It is happening in rural areas towns cities and in metropolitans as well. It is crossing all social classes genders racial lines and age groups. It is becoming a legacy being passed on from one generation to another.
The term used to describe this exploding problem of violence within our homes is Domestic Violence. This violence is towards someone who we are in a relationship with be it a wife husband son daughter mother father grandparent or any other family member. It can be a males or a females atrocities towards another male or a female. Anyone can be a victim and a victimizer. This violence has a tendency to explode in various forms such as physical sexual or emotional.
Since times immemorial domestic violence has been an intrinsic part of the society we are living in. The contributing factors could be the desire to gain control over another family member the desire to exploit someone for personal benefits the flare to be in a commanding position all the time showcasing ones supremacy so on and so forth. On various occasions psychological problems and social influence also add to the vehemence. The present essay deals with the various forms of domestic violence prevalent in India. Their causes of occurrence in households have been analyzed categorically. The variation in the intensity of the forms with change in the geographical location and culture has also been addressed. The aftereffects of different kinds of domestic violence and the possible remedies have been highlighted. Finally a conclusion has been drawn after the complete analysis of the topic with the juxtaposition of facts and figures at hand.
This form of domestic violence is most common of all. One of the reasons for it being so prevalent is the orthodox and idiotic mindset of the society that women are physically and emotionally weaker than the males. Though women today have proved themselves in almost every field of life affirming that they are no less than men the reports of violence against them are much larger in number than against men. The possible reasons are many and are diversified over the length and breadth of the country. According to United Nation Population Fund Report around twothird of married Indian women are victims of domestic violence and as many as per cent of married women in India between the age of and are victims of beating rape or forced sex. In India more than percent of the women suffer from domestic violence especially in the states of Bihar U.P. M.P. and other northern states.
The most common causes for women stalking and battering include dissatisfaction with the dowry and exploiting women for more of it arguing with the partner refusing to have sex with him neglecting children going out of home without telling the partner not cooking properly or on time indulging in extra marital affairs not looking after inlaws etc. In some cases infertility in females also leads to their assault by the family members. The greed for dowry desire for a male child and alcoholism of the spouse are major factors of domestic violence against women in rural areas. There have been gruesome reports of young bride being burnt alive or subjected to continuous harassment for not bringing home the amount of demanded dowry. Women in India also admit to hitting or beating because of their suspicion about the husbands sexual involvement with other women. The Tandoor Murder Case of Naina Sahni in New Delhi in the year is one such dreadful incident of a woman being killed and then burnt in a Tandoor by his husband. This incidence was an outcome of suspicion of extra marital affairs of Naina Sahni which led to marital discord and domestic violence against her.
In urban areas there are many more factors which lead to differences in the beginning and later take the shape of domestic violence. These include more income of a working woman than her partner her absence in the house till late night abusing and neglecting inlaws being more forward socially etc. Working women are quite often subjected to assaults and coercion sex by employees of the organization. At times it could be voluntary for a better pay and designation in the office.
Violence against young widows has also been on a rise in India. Most often they are cursed for their husbands death and are deprived of proper food and clothing. They are not allowed or encouraged for remarriage in most of the homes especially in rural areas. There have been cases of molestation and rape attempts of women by other family members in nuclear families or someone in the neighbourhood. At times women are even sexually coerced by their partner themselves against their will. They are brutally beaten and tortured for not conceiving a male child. Incidents like ripping off a womans womb for killing the female foetus when she disagrees for abortion have also come to light especially in rural areas. Female foeticide and female infanticide continue to be a rising concern.
Other forms of physical abuse against women include slapping punching grabbing burdening them with drudgery public humiliation and the neglect of their health problems. Some of the other forms of psychological torment against them could be curtailment of their rights to selfexpression and curbing the freedom to associate with the natal family and friends.
There is no question that domestic violence directed against women is a serious and bigger problem but domestic violence against men is also increasing gradually in India. The supremacy of men in the society makes one believe that they are not vulnerable to domestic violence. Battering of men by their spouse and family members has become a concerned issue and is another form of domestic violence under purview of judiciary. In India compared to violence against women violence against men is less frequent but it has already taken a deadly shape in many of the western countries by now.
Males have reported incidences of assault against them like pushing shoving slapping grabbing hitting which are intended to harm them and also take their lives on many occasions. Recently hundreds of husbands gathered in Chandigarh and Shimla to voice their opinion for mens rights and protection against domestic violence subjected to them by their wives and other family members. It reflects the need for a special law for curbing domestic violence against men in present times.
If we contemplate over the reasons behind this form of domestic violence we would find some of the possible causes such as not abiding by the instructions of the wives inadequate earning of men infidelity towards wives not helping the partner in household activities not taking a proper care of children abusing the spouses family infertility of men spying the activities of partner doubting the partner all the time and not trusting her revolt by the wife when asked to look after inlaws etc. On many occasions the spat between men and women becomes public thereby influencing the society around especially in the villages. In urban areas such forms of violence may go unreported because of greater privacy. Also the families find their reputation at stake in urban areas.
Children and teenagers in our society are not spared from the evil of domestic violence. In fact this form of violence is second in terms of number of reported cases after the violence against women. There is a lot of variation in the form of its occurrence in urban and rural areas and in uppermiddle class and lower class families in India. In urban regions it is more private and concealed within the four walls of homes. The possible reasons could be disobeying parental advises and orders poor performance in academics or not being at par with other children in neighbourhood debating with parents and other family members etc. In addition to this factors like not being socially intelligent or as active as the parents expect them to be abusing the parents or speaking ill about other family members not returning home on time are some other factors.
In rural areas the reasons could be harassment for child labour physical abuse or harm for not following family traditions forcing them to stay at home and not allowing them to go to school etc. Domestic violence against girls is in fact more severe at homes. As the common mob mentality of India prefers to have at least one male child after marriage the girls in most of the occasions are cursed and assaulted for having taken birth in the home. This kind abuse is prevalent both in cities and villages but is more common in latter case. Then there are cases of paedophilia causing sexual harassment of children in homes by family member themselves. In fact the number of rape cases of prematured girls has been rising since last few years. A survey of teens and college students found that rape accounted for percent of sexual assaults in girls. Apart from sexual abuse and rape pushing slapping punching stalking and emotional abuse are other forms of domestic violence against children.
Adding to the above mentioned causes there are also instances of abuse against children who are physically andor mentally challenged. Instead of providing them proper health care and treating them politely these children are beaten and harassed for not cooperating and attending to what family members ask them to do. They are even emotionally abused by cursing them having been in such retarded or handicapped state. In fact in poor families there have been reports of selling body organs of the retarded children for getting money in return. It reflects the height of cruelness and violence against innocent children.
This form of domestic violence refers to the violence which old people at home are subjected to by their children and other family members. This category of domestic violence largely goes underreported in India. It is because of the dependency of olds on their children and having a fear of not being looked after or even ousted if the violence is revealed in public. The main causes of violence against aged people are children being hesitant in bearing the expenses of the old parents emotionally victimising the olds and beating them to death to get rid of them. On various occasions they are beaten for doing something against the desire of family members. One of the very common reasons includes torture for property grabbing.
A perturbing trend is the vulnerability of ageing women to domestic violence in various forms. Given existing structures of gender discrimination old women are prone to a greater risk than men of becoming victims of material exploitation financial deprivation property grabbing abandonment verbal humiliation emotional and psychological torment. When they fall seriously ill it is more likely that it is the elderly women in the family who will be denied proper health care. There is also a widespread understanding that the neglect deprivation and marginalisation of older women are the normal consequences of ageing. In fact the plight of young widows in homes as discussed above now becomes more serious as a result of the ageing of those women. They are cut off from the society they are living in ignored abused cursed and considered as bad omens. The atrocities of sons daughterinlaws daughters and husbands could be another cause of domestic violence specifically against older women. They are restrained from cooking housekeeping or participating in activities outside the home.
While it is difficult to accurately measure the extent of the problem on a national scale given the fact that most families deny that such abuse but we do know that the number of old people in our midst is growing. A current estimate puts the plus population at around million in India and is projected to have a population of million older people by . Given this demographic reality an important concern is the kind of action the country can take at the individual and societal level to alleviate abuse and neglect of elderly class.
There are some more possible forms of domestic violence prevalent in India other than the ones listed above. On a serious note family wars or clan wars are deadly forms of domestic violence across the country. The reason of such type of violence include dispute over property physically or emotionally abusing any member of other family or clan any religious cause or conflict arising during a religious ceremony jealousy because of progress and financial status of other family intercaste marriage etc. This form of violence is common in many states like Haryana Punjab Andhra Pradesh etc.
One of the other forms of domestic violence is illtreatment of servants and maids in households. In many of the affluent homes servants are deprived of their salary and basic necessities. They are harassed and beaten and to work without even taking adequate rest. Similarly maids are molested by males in the family. Atrocities against small children working as servants are common and increasing.
To some extent media is also responsible for contributing to all the above forms of violence. The exaggerated news coverage of reports of domestic violence the daily soaps screening the torture of a daughterinlaw at the hands of family members the films portraying an element of violence against people of all age groups etc. are some of the menaces which media is causing. It is influencing the mindset of the viewers strongly. The problem arises when instead of taking a lesson from those news clippings films and television shows people start enacting the same in their homes. Comparatively the visual media is far more influencing than the print and electronic media in these cases. Illiteracy and mob mentality of majority of Indians misguides them in all these cases.
There are varied consequences of domestic violence depending on the victim the age group the intensity of the violence and frequency of the torment they are subjected to. Living under a constant fear threat and humiliation are some of the feelings developed in the minds of the victims as a consequence of an atrocious violence. The consequences of the domestic violence in detail can be broadly categorised under the Effect on the victim himselfherself and the family Effect on the society and the Effect on nations growth and productivity. The Effect on the victim has been further subcategorized for women men children and olds.
Battered women have tendency to remain quiet agonised and emotionally disturbed after the occurrence of the torment. A psychological set back and trauma because of domestic violence affects womens productivity in all forms of life. The suicide case of such victimised women is also a deadly consequence and the number of such cases is increasing.
A working Indian woman may drop out from work place because of the illtreatment at home or office she may lose her inefficiency in work. Her health may deteriorate if she is not well physically and mentally. Some women leave their home immediately after first few atrocious attacks and try to become selfdependent. Their survival becomes difficult and painful when they have to work hard for earning two meals a day. Many such women come under rescue of women welfare organizations like Women Welfare Association of India WWAI Affus Woman Welfare Association AWWA and Womans Emancipation and Development Trust WEDT. Some of them who leave their homes are forcefully involved in women trafficking and pornography. This results in acquiring a higher risk of becoming a drug addict and suffering from HIVAIDS. Some of course do it by their choice.
One of the severe effects of domestic violence against women is its effect on her children. It is natures phenomenon that a child generally has a greater attachment towards the mother for she is the one who gives birth. As long as the violence subjected to the mother is hidden from the child heshe may behave normally at home. The day when mothers grief and suffering is revealed a child may become upset about the happening deeply. Children may not even comprehend the severity of the problem. They may turn silent reserved and express solace to the mother. When the violence against women is openly done in front of them since their childhood it may have a deeper and gruesome impact in their mindset. They get used to such happenings at home and have a tendency to reciprocate the same in their lives. Its common in especially in rural homes in India which are victimised by the evil of domestic violence.
In cases of Intimate Partner Violence IPV violence against women leads them to maintain a distance from their partner. Their sexual life is affected adversely. Many of them file for divorce and seek separation which again affects the life of children. Some continue to be exploited in lack of proper awareness of human rights and laws of the constitution.
The consequences against violence against men in India is largely emotional and psychological in nature. The physical harassment resulting from domestic violence also affects their lives and productivity but it is still more inclined towards the emotional problems which men face in India. It is largely because many such cases go unreported as compared to cases of physical assault of women. An emotionally harassed and depressed man may lose interest in the occupation he is associated with. If he is the only breadearning person in the family the family may find it difficult to survive. There has been a spate of farmers suicide in recent years in Karnataka. Several farmers have committed suicide not only because of indebtedness but also because of discord in family and depression resulting out of it. According to statistics of Save India Family Foundation an NGO around . lac harassed husbands have committed suicide in the country in the last four years.
Consequences of Violence Against ChildrenTeens The consequences in case of children are far more drastic and its effect is long lived. Children are sensitive to issues related to violence of any kind as they are not mature enough to comprehend them. In their growing years they try to imitate things which they see happening around them. In the process of following their parents advice or instructions they become firm in their opinion and approach towards life. Now if the approach of parents itself is negative children are bound to get influenced by it. They may adopt the negative traits of the ill they see around them or develop a hostile approach in life because of the illtreatment they are subjected to. If a child is beaten badly for under performing in school he may do the same to his children thinking it might be the only possible way of making a person to work hard.
Whenever a child is dropped out of school because of poor financial condition or when he is engaged in some form of child labour there is a sudden leap which the child tries to take from his childhood to the manhood. In this process he misses out the values and morals a person should inculcate in him as a good human being. He fails to develop a vision to see things from an unbiased point of view. All these factors make a child insensitive towards the society and the societal needs. Every instance of child abuse causes a callous indifference to suffering.
However in the process of comprehending the wrong being done to them many children are traumatised and psychologically disturbed. They find it unsustainable and may lose out their mental soundness. Children who are victimised by physical violence may become handicapped as well. In some cases children prefer to run away from home and try to become self dependent. Some commit suicide. Some indulge in malpractices because of improper education and bad company they become a part of after leaving the home. Some even reciprocate the violence they are subjected to by harming the family members.
Girls also develop a feeling of insecurity in their homes when they are sexually exploited. They lose their selfconfidence and desire for living. A girl child from violent home can withdraw from society and become completely depressed. Children from violent homes become disobedient and violent and start using aggression to solve their problems. Adolescents may succumb to drugs and alcohol when treated harshly. Some helpless and abandoned children are picked up gangs who sell their organs for making huge amount of money. In most of the cities the group of beggars at traffic lights or railway platforms are the abandoned children who are physically deformed forcefully for begging. The children who escape being a part of this vicious circle are looked after by children welfare organizations like Indian Child Welfare Association ICWA Child Relief and You CRY and ChildLine etc.
The elderly abuse is one of the most unfortunate happening for the elderly class in their lives. They would rather like to be more at ease and calm in this phase of their life than being prone to such kind of shameful treatment by the family or society. Ironically elderly class itself also indulges in harming each other. Many of the elderly men continue to beat and harass their wives throughout their lives.
Some of the olds are ousted from home by their children some are beaten until death and some are exploited socially. A sense of insecurity dodges them all the time. They are isolated and cut off from society in some cases where son and daughterinlaw do not let them interact and move around freely in the society. The old people are not looked after properly and their health problems are neglected. Due to the abuse and mental trauma they suffer some of them leave home and stay in old age homes like HelpAge India Senior Citizen Home Complex Welfare Society SCHCWS and many others.
All the different forms of violence discussed in this essay adversely affect the society. Violence against women may keep them locked in homes succumbing to the torture they face. If they come out in open and reveal the wrong done to them for help and rescue it influences the society both positively and negatively. At one hand where it acts as an inspiration and ray of hope for other suffering women on the other hand it also spoils the atmosphere of the society. When something of this kind happens in the society few families may witness the evil of domestic violence knocking their door steps. Some families try to imitate what others indulge in irrespective of it being good or bad for the family.
As mentioned earlier domestic violence affects the productivity level of the victim negatively. Men and women lose interest in household activities. If they are employed they fail to work with full capabilities in workplace. Children are found to concentrate less on studies. They drop out of school and do not get the education which otherwise they might have got if they were not tormented and thus the country loses a productive asset. Therefore the nations productivity altogether gets affected because of domestic violence in homes. When old people are tortured and physically abused they separate themselves from family members and their daily activities are restricted to themselves. The guardianship they can provide out of their experience the moral values which they can instil in the grandchildren are all not done as they are unwanted in their own homes. People need to spend their part of income for medication when they are met with worse forms of domestic violence which again leads to loss in productive use of a familys income. The cumulative effect of the domestic violence at all levels and across all regions is the countrys hindered development and slow economic growth.
A very important question in wake of domestic violence remedies is that what exactly we are looking for in the process of minimising their occurrences. Is it so that we want to gather more information about such cases for just expressing our concern over this issue with more accuracy having facts and figures at hand Or instead of just raising our voices we want to clean up the mess with shear force and determination
A recent study has concluded that violence against women is the fastestgrowing crime in India. According to a latest report prepared by Indias National Crime Records Bureau NCRB a crime has been recorded against women in every three minutes in India. Every minutes two women are raped in this country. Every six hours a young married woman is found beaten to death burnt or driven to suicide.
The response to the phenomenon of domestic violence is a typical combination of effort between law enforcement agencies social service agencies the courts and correctionsprobation agencies. The role of all these has progressed over last few decades and brought their activities in public view. Domestic violence is now being viewed as a public health problem of epidemic proportion all over the world and many public private and governmental agencies are seen making huge efforts to control it in India. There are several organizations all over the world government and non government actively working to fight the problems generated by domestic violence to the human community.
In domestic violence was recognised as a specific criminal offence by the introduction of section A into the Indian Penal Code. This section deals with cruelty by a husband or his family towards a married woman. The main legislative measures at the national level for the children who become a victim of child labor include The Child Labor Prohibition and Regulation Act and The Factories Act . The first act was categorical in prohibiting the employment of children below fourteen years of age and identified processes and occupations which were considered dangerous to the health and lives of children. The factories act again prohibits the employment of children less than fourteen years of age.
The Government of India passed a Domestic Violence Bill To protect the rights of women who are victims of violence of any kind occurring within the family and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto
An act called Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act DVA also has been passed. This Act ensures the reporting of cases of domestic violence against women to a Protection Officer who then prepares a Domestic Incident Report to the Magistrate and forward copies thereof to the police officer in charge of the police station within the local limits of jurisdiction
Unfortunately at present there is no single law in the Indian Constitution which can strictly deal
with all the different forms of Domestic Violence as discussed in this essay. There is an urgent need for such a law in the country. In fact there has also been misuse of section A and DVA because of restricted definition of cruelty subjected to married women.
The role of nongovernmental organizations in controlling the domestic violence and curbing its worse consequences is crucial. Sakshi a violence intervention agency for women and children in Delhi works on cases of sexual assault sexual harassment child sexual abuse and domestic abuse and focuses on equality education for judges and implementation of the Supreme Courts sexual harassment guidelines. Womens Rights Initiative another organization in the same city runs a legal aid cell for cases of domestic abuse and works in collaboration with law enforcers in the area of domestic violence.
Your browser may not support display of this image. In Mumbai bodies like Majlis and Swaadhar are doing meaningful works in this field. Sneha in Chennai and Vimochana in Bangalore are working on many womens issues arising from domestic abuse. They are also doing active work in issues related to labour. Services ranging from counselling education and outreach giving provisions and mobilizing them for gaining selfconfidence are provided to them. Anweshi is a womens counselling centre in Kozhikode providing meditation resource and counselling for battered women. All the above bodies have their own registered offices contact numbers and websites for those who want to seek help. There are at present only few NGOs for welfare of men like Social Welfare Association for Men SWAM in Chennai. Few more such organizations need to be opened for the help of abused men.
These NGOs continue to spread awareness amongst people regarding the legal rights they have in hand for fighting against the atrocities they are subjected to. They are encouraging more and more people to report any case of domestic violence so that proper action may be taken against the culprits.
Police plays a major role in tackling the domestic violence cases. They need to be sensitized to treat domestic violence cases as seriously as any other crime. Special training to handle domestic violence cases should be imparted to police force. They should be provided with information regarding support network of judiciary government agenciesdepartments. Gender training should be made mandatory in the trainings of the police officers. There should be a separate wing of police dealing with womens issues attached to all police stations and should be excluded from any other duty.
Authorities should take steps to recognize Domestic Violence as a public health issue. A crisis support cell needs to be established in all major Government and Private Hospitals with a trained medical social worker for provide appropriate services. Training programmes must be organized for health professionals in order to develop their skills to provide basic support for abused people. Documentation on the prevalence and the health consequences of domestic violence should be undertaken by the concerned government departments health care institutions NGOs and counselling centres. A nodal agency should also be set up for the annual consolidation of the documented work and publish the same for wider publicity among the masses for increasing awareness.
Conclusion Having looked at a sensitive topic of Domestic Violence in India we can sense the importance of discussion of such a topic. The varying causes which can spark the violence within the four walls of homes need to be analysed carefully and a wise study of the factors causing the violence may prevent a family to suffer from the menace of domestic violence. The domestic violence may have a far wider and deeper impact in real life than what has been covered in this essay. What is required is to see closely the association of the factors provoking a particular form of domestic violence. If these factors can be controlled then more than one form of violence can be prevented from harming an individual or our society and India would be a much better place to live in.
Joshi M. M. . The Protection From Domestic Violence Bill. Government Bill. Bill No. of 
The writer is a Goa based Correspondent of Youth Ki Awaaz and also a student at BITS Pilani Goa Campus.
YouthKiAwaaz.com is an award winning Indias largest online and mobile platform for young people to express themselves on issues of critical importance. This article has been written by a Youth Ki Awaaz JournalistContributor. You can submit an article too. Click here to write for Youth Ki Awaaz or to submit a photo or a video.
If you sign up with Google Twitter or Facebook well automatically import your bio which you will be able to editchange after logging in. Also well never post to Twitter or Facebook without your permission. We take privacy very seriously. 
there are many daughters like me suffering from mentally torture given by real moms and people feel its not true no hope to come out of it if any one can help me outor else no other option but to kill my own self
my sister is a victim of domestic violence. her husband is a very aggressive person. he mentally physically abused her many times. she have a one year old daughter. pls suggest how can i help her
Human rights groups have turned to technology to build up a body of more objective and valid evidence regarding the violations in IsraelPalestine.
The recent outbreak offire at the Deonar dumping groundin Mumbai has reignited the discourse around waste management system in the country.
In All Quiet on the Western Front was banned for not being aligned with Nazi views. In the Indian Government draws a strikingly similar parallel.
The journey of a young man from being devout to atheism through reason and introspection traced by a friend.
Eminent writers after returning their state awards questioned the growing communalisation of politics and shrinking space for expression of dissent.
Nearly of Indian women and a little over half of Indian men think that wifebeating is okay according to the latest National Family Health Survey reflecting widespread social acceptability of domestic violence across genders
Over of Indian women have experienced domestic violence at some point in their married lives and nearly think that spousal abuse is warranted in several circumstances according to the newlypublished findings of Indias third National Family Health Survey NFHSIII. 
NFHSIII which interviewed . lakh women in states and the national capital during found that just over a third of women who had been married at any point in their lives said they had been pushed slapped shaken or otherwise attacked by their husbands at least once. 
Slapping was the most common act of physical violence by husbands. More than of women said their husbands slapped them while said their husbands pulled their hair or twisted their arm. Around of the women had things thrown at them. 
The NFHS also states that an overwhelming majority of women who reported domestic violence were first assaulted by their husbands less than two years into their marriage. According to the figures experienced physical or sexual violence within the first two years of marriage while experienced violence in the first five years. 
Indias latest and most comprehensive survey also found that one in six wives had been emotionally abused by their husbands while one in or have experienced sexual violence like marital rape on at least one occasion. 
Low levels of education clearly play a major role in this horrifying trend over of women who reported domestic violence had no education compared with among women with or more years of education. The figure was for women who had completed high school. 
According to the NFHS figures domestic violence is most common in Bihar the percentage of abused women is with of incidents reported among urban women. Bihar was followed by Rajasthan . Madhya Pradesh . Manipur . Uttar Pradesh . Tamil Nadu . and West Bengal .. 
Meanwhile the tiny less developed but highly progressive hill state of Himachal Pradesh reported the lowest incidence of abuse by husbands a mere . 
Women belonging to scheduled caste and scheduled tribe communities reportedly experienced the most spousal abuse with one in three reporting having been beaten by their husbands. 
Ironically Buddhist women reported the highest levels of violence followed by Muslim and Hindu women and Sikh and Christian women . Women from the Jain community reported the lowest levels of violence . 
With regard to attitudes to domestic violence the NFHS found that of women thought that husbands were justified in slapping their wives if the latter showed disrespect to their inlaws. Meanwhile a substantial of women thought they deserved a brutal beating at the hands of their spouses if they neglected doing the household chores or looking after their children. 
Given this attitude towards domestic violence from the victims themselves it is unsurprising that nearly of the Indian men surveyed think hitting or beating their wives is acceptable for certain reasons particularly if she disrespects her inlaws. A smaller number think bad cooking or refusing sex are reasons for physically assaulting their wives. 
Experts say the way women in India are brought up explains why only one in four abused women seek help to try and end the violence their husbands mete out to them. For instance only of women who faced domestic violence sought intervention from the police. 
Commenting on NFHS findings on the widespread social acceptability of genderbased physical abuse by a partner Dr Sulabha Parasuraman of the International Institute of Population Studies IIPS says the attitude of Indian women is truly shocking. Men are brought up being taught that beating up their wives isnt wrong while women are told that being assaulted by their husbands is acceptable. Girls are taught that they can be punished by their husbands for disobedience. This social attitude has to change immediately. 
The IIPS spearheaded the survey on domestic violence for the NFHS that was jointly conducted by organisations. 
InfoChange India News Features development news India Developed By Tekdi Web Solutions.
ONE IN THREE CAMPAIGNOne in three victims of family violence is maleIt appears that your web browser does not support JavaScript or you have temporarily disabled scripting. Either way this site wont work without it.
This page contains a selection of recent news articles and commentary about male victims of violence and abuse plus related issues. These articles are presented as a community service and do not necessarily reflect the views of the One in Three Campaign.
Please send any relevant news articles to us by clicking here and we will post them on this page.
A recent Australian study has disproved the claim that men rarely experience violence abuse fear control and coersion after separation.
In October the Australian Institute of Family Studies AIFS released its Experiences of Separated Parents Study part of its evaluation of the family violence amendments by the Federal Government.
The study examined the experiences of two cohorts of parents in and the latter a total of parents who separated between July and December representing parents postreform experience of the family law system.
The data indicate that family violence is a common experience among separated parents with a majority of participating parents in both cohorts reporting either physical or emotional abuse.
These figures make a lie of the oftrepeated claim that men rarely experience postseparation violence for example here here here here here here here and here. There was no statistically significant difference between fathers and mothers in the frequency of reporting having often felt fearful after experiencing physical violence or emotional abuse since separation and fathers were statistically significantly more likely than mothers to report having often felt controlled or coerced after experiencing physical violence or emotional abuse since separation. When it came to severity fathers were also more likely than mothers to report experiencing the highest level of fear control and coersion on a point scale that they felt arising from the focus parents behaviour since separation. Experiences of control and coersion were statistically significantly higher for fathers than mothers.
The full report can be downloaded from aifs.gov.ausitesdefaultfilespublicationdocumentsefvaesps.pdf.
The first time Nicks wife punched him in the face was because he hadnt cleaned the bathtub properly.
At the time I felt that it was my job to fix it Nick says the male mentality is often that you fix things.
It was the year after they married and looking back yearold Nick can see the violence didnt come out of the blue. His wife well call her Imogen was continually picking aggressive verbal arguments with him over minor domestic things such as how hed pegged out the clothes on the clothesline.
One minute shes lying in a foetal position on the floor and the next shes screaming at you that you dont pay enough attention or youve done something wrong he says.
Right from the outset Nick says Imogen worked towards isolating him from his closeknit family.
Statistically one in four women and one in six men suffer from domestic abuse and within these abusive relationships a vast percentage are nonviolent. These relationships operate on the premise of take take take.
Victims are isolated controlled told how to dress what to eat when to sleep. They are not allowed to work and are manipulated by threats of violence rape or the intervention of social services to take away children. They are humiliated and degraded and reality is continuous fear and uncertainty.
This is coercive control. This is domestic abuse and is now a crime in its own right.
The offence of Coercive and Controlling behaviour can be considered if the perpetrators behaviour has had serious effect on the victim meaning that it has caused the victim to fear violence will be used against them on at least two occasions or it has had a substantial adverse effect on the victims day to day activities. The maximum prison term is five years.
That is why the Surrey Against Domestic Abuse partnership has launched a campaign to promote the help and support available to people experiencing domestic abuse. Named Give and Take this campaign also seeks to make friends and family of those who are being abused by a partner or family member more aware of their role in taking action. Domestic abuse can happen to both men and women and regardless of sexual orientation ethnicity age class religion or physical ability.
Throughout the campaign we will be using the hashtag behindcloseddoors on Twitter. Join in the conversation and help us encourage more people to seek support and safety.
. Calling the hour yourSanctuary helpline for information and advice on .
Social justice journalist Ginger Gorman is looking for case studies for a story shes writing on female perpetrators of domestic violence.
The One in Three Campaigns submission to the Senate Finance and Public Administration Committeesinquiry into domestic violence and gender inequality has been published on the inquirys website.
Domestic violence is threatening abusive or violent behavior in the home between adults.Dating or relationship violence means that this behavior is directed by one person towards another in a dating relationship.
Have you hurt someone you loveFind help through a Batterers Intervention Program.
Find manuals forms instructions and other resources on our Provider and Partner resources page.
Sadat has spent four years in the corridors of the court getting a divorce from her abusive exhusband. She has not seen her yearold daughter.
The Supreme Court ruled in a decision announced Monday that a domestic violence assault committed recklessly qualifies as a misdemeanor crime of dom.
Long before yearold Omar Mateen opened fire in a popular gay nightclub in Orlando Florida and committed the deadliest mass shooting in modern U..
If you can bolster your support and learn from the challenges then your secondor even seventhattempt may be the one that sticks. And that could change your lifetruly.
Your honor this is the first time my client has been arrested for domestic violence. This lawyer is doing his job by trying to get his client the b.
When I was in college I would read at least two newspapers per day. I was studying finance and economics and was in the habit of always staying up to.
As a public figure Evelyn Lozada has spent years living her life out in the open. So when the reality TV star alleged in that her thenhusband .
I have been witness to two instances of domestic violence in my life. It is easily two too many and at each occurrence I probably failed in my duty to do the right thing.
You hear this all the time. Someone brings allegations of domestic abuse against someone else and the immediate reaction of the general public is to assume the accuser is making the whole thing up.
It was and Donna Ferrato wanted to photograph people in love. More precisely she was interested in swingers who frequented New Yorks sex clubs..
Before you get all riled up this isnt a piece aimed at the studios calling for the advertising to change. I .
The Centers for Disease Control has reported a rise in the rates of violence against men saying that one in seven men or older have been the victims of severe physical violence by a partner in their lifetimes.
NFL Hall of Fame linebacker Lawrence Taylor was allegedly attacked on Thursday by his wife Lynette Taylor leading to her arrest for domestic violenc.
More photos showing the alleged abuse Amber Heard faced at the hands of her estranged husband Johnny Depp have surfaced. 
As I watch Trump raging against Elizabeth Warren and other women it strikes me that his verbal abuse is very much in the spirit of the battered wife.
Nearly Christian Jewish and Muslim faith leaders have signed a letter asking Congress to close loopholes in federal law that allow domestic abuse.
The th annual Gladys Ricart and Victims of Domestic Violence Memorial Walk kicked off at Monroe College in the Bronx on Saturday September . The march is named after Gladys Ricart who was murdered on her wedding day by her abusive exboyfriend on September .
Maybe your partner doesnt hit you but he calls you fat and ugly each time he gets upset. Maybe he doesnt hit you but he confiscates your paych.
Victims of domestic violence can sometimes be afraid to leave the situation and at times even blame themselves for the abuse.
I had jury duty this week and I was totally unprepared for all the emotions it stirred up. At first I was looking forward to it wondering if I might.
I have no reason to believe that domestic violence is happening at an increased rate since people started using online dating apps. However I do have a theory that the timeline of unhealthy or unsafe relationships are possibly speeding up.
Time and time again women are told like children to sit down sit still sit quiet.And since Im barely an adult to begin with who is going to believe me
The two deaths came in quick succession shocking the closeknit community of health care workers at the University of Maryland St. Joseph Medical Cen.
We must challenge habitual ways of speaking and negative thought patterns and take action to change what creates unhappiness in our lives. The change in our thought patterns wont happen overnight but with consistent effort we will begin to feel better soon after shifting our beliefs.
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more.
Shift is an initiative to prevent family violence that originated in Alberta at the University of Calgary. It aims to provide accessible and accurate information to the public and to community leaders on how to ultimately prevent family violence before it occurs. In April they published a report titled Engaging the News Media to Influence Attitudes Norms and Behaviours and Reduce the Rates of Domestic Violence which sheds light on some of the ways that the media could more appropriately portray cases of domestic violence.
With so many eyes on the media news coverage has the ability to play a strongly influential role in our society. In other words what people hear from news sources whether it be on TV online over the radio or in the paper they believe. The April Shift document hypothesized that the Canadian news media inappropriately reports on instances of domestic violence thereby skewing the opinion and influencing attitudes of the general public and policy makers.
News media when related to domestic violence often takes the easy way out. It can be observed that the media tends to portray domestic violence cases as individualized or isolated rather than a thematic and contextually societal issue. Often victims are blamed or excuses are made for the violence. Coverage is typically only seen relating to fatal incidents as opposed to situations involving emotionalpsychological financial or verbal abuse leading to the belief that the latter forms are not abuse at all.
This is not to say that by any means the media is purposely undermining victims of this violent societal epidemic. Domestic violence is difficult to talk about and a stigma exists that it is an issue that should be dealt with privately within the home. It is ironic though that those involved in the business of news media who are often bashed for making things too public and not respecting privacy are subsequently encouraging this unhealthy stigma.
Shifts Engaging the News Media to Influence Attitudes Norms and Behaviours and Reduce the Rates of Domestic Violence provides dozens of examples as to how news media is failing victims of domestic violence. Domestic violence is not better left alone kept secret in the home in the way that victims attempt to hide their scars. A change in the medias treatment of domestic violence cases will most definitely not happen overnight but becoming aware of its failings and how we the public can strive towards a better understanding of the issue as a whole is a step in the right direction.
Id like to give special thanks to the following people for their work at Shift and allowing me the use of their report
More information on the Shift initiative can be found at their website by clicking here.
CBC News. Domestic abuse victims often recant stories. Accessed July .
Its been a big month for domestic violence and sexual assault coveragestarting with that unhinged George F. Will piece in The Washington Post. Were here to catch you up on some essential reading that will inform enlighten and in the case of Wills piece probably enrage.
. In light of the Obama administrations Title IX efforts columnist George F. Will argued that sexual assault victimhood is now a coveted status among women on college campuses.
. For a cogent response to his ridiculous piece read Salons takedown by Katie McDonough. Or just visit Project Unbreakable. For what its worth Will stood by his opinions.
. Not long after the Post published a piece suggesting that a good way for women to protect themselves against domestic violence is to get married.
. Luckily the Atlantic The New York Times and others promptly questioned the authors use of statistics and called this ridiculous. The DC Coalition Against Domestic Violence also has a powerful response.
. In Virginia James Madison University punished three frat brothers for sexually assaulting a woman by expelling themafter graduation. Students started a petition protesting the bizarre punishment and who better than Jon Stewart to mock them
. New York Times columnist Ross Douthat offereda more sympathetic but shortsighted take on campus rape suggesting that the beer and circus culture on college campuses is to blame especially for wealthy students.
. Soccer star Hope Solo apologized to fans following a domestic violence incident at her home.
. Meanwhile even Disney is being leveraged to join the fight to increase domestic abuse awareness. The Princest Diaries poster series shows iconic Disney princesses forced to kiss their fathers.
. And finally on a progressive note Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal introduced the Lori Jackson Domestic Violence Survivor Protection Act restricting those under temporary restraining order from purchasing or possessing a firearm and extending the protections granted domestic violence victims to victims abused by dating partners.
Pirates AllStars Say NO MORE to Gender Violence In New Public Service Announcements
This month a felony crime of strangulation including a definition of strangulation as knowingly and willfully restricting another persons air intake or blood flow by the application of pressure on the neck or throat was added to West Virginias books.
With that law passed as HB any person who strangles another person without consent and causes bodily injury or loss of consciousness can be charged with a felony offense of strangulation. If convicted the possible sentence is one to five years and a fine of .
Prior to this law there had to be an element of physical injury or intent to kill something like that in order to get a felony level charge when often strangulation can result in death or near death with merely red marks or sometimes no visible injuries at all explained Joyce Yadlosky team coordinator for the West Virginia Coalition Against Domestic Violence.
Bodily injury in this law is defined as substantial physical pain illness or any impairment of physical condition.
In the past possible charges for strangulations were limited to malicious wounding a felony if injuries were visible or misdemeanors including assault and battery domestic assault and domestic battery among others.
Strangulation is an indicator that someone might actually kill someone she told MetroNews citing a study from the Journal of Emergency Medicine. Someone who strangles someone is seven times more likely to kill them in the future.
The Legislature first passed the legislation during the Regular Legislative Session but Governor Earl Ray Tomblin vetoed it then because in his view it duplicated existing law.
A comparable bill again came out of the Senate and House of Delegates during the Regular Legislative Session. Yadlosky said Tomblin signed the bill this year after receiving more information including medical evidence about its necessity.
In the leadup to the law change Yadlosky said she heard from law enforcement officers prosecutors victims and victims advocates who were all coming forward with actual cases where strangulation had occurred and where law enforcement andor prosecutors felt like their hands were tied by our prior laws Yadlosky said.
We were deeply disappointed to see Gov. Tomblins veto of the strangulation assault bill in West Virginia. The governors staff clearly failed him and failed the people of West Virginia. Men who strangle women are some of the most dangerous men on the planet. If a man strangles a woman once with his hands he is percent more likely to later kill her than a man who assaults a woman but does not strangle her.
Recently we documented that percent of all police officers killed in the line of duty are killed by men who have previously strangled women. Unfortunately the majority of near death strangulation assaults involve no external visible injury. Indeed many victims murdered by strangulation assault have no external visible injury at all. Not until the autopsy are the injuries evident.
A victim strangled to unconsciousness suffers internal brain damage and often longterm health consequences but may have no external marks at all. This is why states and the federal government have passed special felony statutes since . Current West Virginia law is completely inadequate to address these nearfatal assaults. The governors veto means more women will die in West Virginia. It means more police officers will die at the hands of men who assault women and later kill police officers. We urge the governor to sign the bill the next time the Legislature law enforcement and domestic violence professionals bring it forward. His support for a felony strangulation assault law in West Virginia is a matter of life and death.
NO MORE is a unifying symbol and movement to raise public awareness and engage bystanders around ending domestic violence and sexual assault. Launched in March by a coalition of leading advocacy groups service providers the U.S. Department of Justice and major corporations NO MORE is supported by hundreds of national and local groups and by thousands of individuals organizations universities and communities who are using its signature blue symbol to increase visibility for domestic violence and sexual assault.
Thispaper discusses how characteristics common to rural communities such as a lack of access to resources and a sometimes strong communal identity influence how rural public education work is done. It highlights factors that supported the West Virginia rural public education project and discusses how they planned and implemented public education work activities described include the review and development of materials and themes the use of statewide surveys and focus groups and material distribution plans including the use of a statewide and local networks.
This paper is adapted from a report by Diane Reese and Sue Julian Project Coordinators for the West Virginia Coalition Against Domestic Violence.
West Virginia Coalition Against Domestic Violence shared The National Network to End Domestic Violences photo. . See MoreSee Less
Happy IndependenceDay Every day we work on issues at the heart of individual freedom and safety. Today we celebrate survivors who have begun to live lives free from abuse and degradation and vow. 
www.facebook.comNNEDVphotosa.type . See MoreSee Less
Happy IndependenceDay Every day we work on issues at the heart of individual freedom and safety. Today we celebrate survivors who have begun to live lives free from abuse and degradation and vow. 
www.facebook.comphotosa.. . See MoreSee Less
Mud and debris are not the only things left to clean up after a major flood. From issues such as recovering important documents to se. 
Here are some tips for dealing with stress and grief caused by the recent flooding.
violates the liberty and dignity of an average man and his family law can see how vicious this law is and what its social implications 
the Domestic Violence DV Act in India. They claim that this law 
right state of mind would agree that domestic violence in a relationship emotional health and for the wellbeing of the children that the 
the law appears to be a blessing for people in abusive or violent relationships. However a careful analysis reveals that under the another misguided attempt to enact legislation to grant women legal supremacy over men and to create a society where men are deprived 
out men as perpetrators of domestic violence and assumes that only women are victims. As per this law only a woman can file a complaint against her male partner. A man who is a victim of domestic violence has no rights under this law. The fact is that it has been comprehensively proven in numerous studies please see references that women are no less abusive as men in intimate relationships. Giving such sweeping legal powers to women while withholding protection to male victims is tantamount to systematic legal victimization of men. In the western Indian version explicitly prohibits any male victim to seek relief 
flaw in this law is that it lends itself to such easy misuse that and false cases. A similar trend is already being observed in the extent that the Supreme Court has termed it Legal Terrorism. scenarios below. She means wifefemale livein partner and he means 
any amount of money from him for any reason whatsoever he is legally bound to pay that amount in full failing which he can be imprisoned. Under the pretext of preventing economic abuse of women this law asks for money from her he can be jailed for that as well. Furthermore 
she retains the right to the residence. This is a very convenient has any legal right on the property. Moreover if he is booked under DV he is responsible for paying the rent as well even though he may not be allowed to live in the house or he might even be in jail.
not to cook and wishes to eat out in a restaurant everyday he cannot afford not to oblige lest he invites the DV provision for not 
affair and he tries to prevent her from meeting her lover he could be punished under the DV act as he is preventing her from meeting 
is a relative term which is totally left to her discretion. Interestingly if she insults and abuses him verbally or even physically he does 
of the ways in which women can exploit men in a legally permitted new realm of possibilities where innocent men will be accused and implicated in false cases just because they refuse to give in to 
agree that the law will be misused. Their counter arguments generally 
of miuses will be very low OR every law is misused The objective of any law should be to punish the guilty and protect the innocent. The persecution of innocents cannot be justified in any circumstances. As is the case with a this law will be heavily misused in urban 
at the mercy of the woman. If the wife wants to kick out old parents from home or wants to pursue an affair and should the man dare to pleasure of another section is deemed oppressive and should be vehemently 
is that there are other legal provisions to deal with domestic violence as well. If a strict law is made for a specific purpose then the provisions for dealing with its misuse should be in the law itself.
in this law is that it provides an allencompassing definition of domestic violence and some terms insults name calling are extremely subjective. The radical feminists claim that of women in India face domestic violence which comes as no surprise as even an insult how many indian men suffer domestic violence using the same criteria. intolerance and litigation for petty domestic disputes. It is universally recognized that from time to time differences arise in a marriage towards each other. Most people though are able to work them out and lead a more or less happy life with their loved one. However daily life to such a level that it eventually leads to a breakdown in marriage. Once a man has been accused of domestic violence for subjected to the same treatment from her he will perpetually feel This law will lead to more divorces broken homes and the children will pay the ultimate price by getting deprived of a pleasant childhood.
be termed as domestic violence. This law trivializes the issue of domestic violence by including minor differences in its realm and 
form is grossly inadequate to tackle the problem of domestic violence. It imposes a lot of responsibility on men without giving them rights. On the other hand it gives lots of rights to women without requiring them to be responsible. At the very minimum it should be made gender neutral offering protection to both men and women. Also provisions for stringent punishments need to be incorporated into the law to prevent misuse. Moreover the law needs to be made more practical by differentiating between various degrees of conflicts and by unambiguously 
is needed to protect the genuine victims of domestic violence irrespective of gender. The perpetrators of domestic violence need to be appropriately withheld from real victims for any reason whatsoever least of all their gender. One can be certain that there is something sinister about a law when it intimidates and instills fear in innocent people. When a person who has not committed any crime begins to fear punishment 
If you or someone you know is experiencing domestic violence you can ring the Domestic Violence Line for help on .
The Domestic Violence Line is a statewide freecall number and is available hours seven days a week.
The Domestic Violence Line provides telephone counselling information and referrals for women and samesex partners who are experiencing or have experienced domestic violence.
Trained female caseworkers are sensitive to the needs of people who have experienced domestic violence.
Domestic Violence Line staff are aware of the special needs of Aboriginal women and women from other cultures as well as those living in rural and remote areas.
Interpreters and TTY can be arranged where necessary to ensure that all people regardless of their language or disability can use the service.
The service has an extensive list of contacts people and services across NSW who can help.
The Domestic Violence Line makes referrals to womens refuges and explains what they are and what they do.
It also makes referrals to family support services counselling the police and courts lawyers and hospitals. It helps with transport emergency accommodation and other relevant support.
Caseworkers can explain what an Apprehended Violence Order AVO is and how to obtain one. Police intervention can be arranged where appropriate and assistance can be provided to transport women and children to a safe place.
To report suspected child abuse or neglect call the Child Protection Helpline on hours days
Champions for Hope is the annual dinner and golf tournament benefiting Hopes Door a comprehensive domestic violence agency in Collin County serving all of North Texas.
Hopes Doors mission is to offer intervention and prevention services to individuals and families affected by domestic violence and to provide educational programs that enhance the communitys capacity to respond.
Hopes Door is a shelter and counseling center in Collin County that offers comprehensive programs and services designed to help break the cycle of domestic violence to families in Collin County Dallas County and surrounding areas. Since its inception in Hopes Door has provided emergency shelter for over women and their children answered more than crisis line calls and provides counseling hours to community members affected by domestic violence.
Hopes Door is a nonprofit c organization. Visit the website at HopesDoorInc.org
There are those who would claim that Shades of Grey glamorizes domestic violence and others would say the movie has nothing to do with it. While we are not in a position to resolve that difference in opinion we welcome the discussion. We can all agree domestic violence is real. It happens every day to millions of women with or without a book or a movie. Shades of Grey and its critics have started the conversation. So lets jump at the chance to turn a national debate into positive action. We want to raise to make a difference in the lives of families affected by domestic violence KFORSHADES.
Newstarter.com approached Hopes Door to continue this conversation currently trending with Shades of Grey. Each donor pledges and the payment is not processed unless the goal is achieved. I am thrilled to kickoff Newstarters KFORSHADES campaign. With Newstarter everyday people become as powerful as someone like Bill Gates Newstarter gathers large groups of people who want the same thing in this case turning a national debate over a movie into positive action by helping support victims of domestic violence through Hopes Door.
The beneficiary of the crowdfunding is Hopes Door a comprehensive domestic violence agency in North Texas. The potential or more raised will allow them to serve a greater number of families affected by domestic violence offering emergency shelter counseling case management legal aid and more. We are so excited about this opportunity to use a national conversation to help the organization said Suzanne Bock Grishman Development Director at Hopes Door. The funds will make such a difference to our organization. Domestic violence has been a hot topic in the media lately. As a result weve seen an upsurge in public awareness and the calls to our crisis hotline have increased dramatically. These funds will allow us to provide continued safety and shelter for victims of domestic violence increase national awareness and the number of clients we serve. The campaign is all or nothing. If we dont hit the goal in days starting today no money is collected so please donate
The Gatsbythemed evening began with a VIP reception in the Cypress Room at the Westin Stonebriar. Dressed in a gold Gatsbystyle fringe and sequin gown Stephanie Mattison gala chair was joined by her husband Tanner and her family along with Suzanne Bock Grishman interim executive director and acting director of development at Hopes Door and her husband Michael. Matthew Grynwald is the president of the board. Many board members and underwriters chatted with honorary chair Glenn Beck founder and CEO of Mercury Radio Arts and best known as the host of The Blaze television and radio shows. His wife Tania also an honorary chair was unable to attend due to a prior family commitment.
Guests bid in the fabulous silent auction sponsored by RentACenter bought out the wine pull gift card pull enjoyed cocktails and passed hors doeuvres and stepped into an eightfoot tall gold frame snapping photos as remembrances.
Entertainment by the band Limelight played as emcee Steve Stoler formerly of WFAA Channel and now the executive director of media relations for the City of Plano welcomed guests and recognized veterans in the audience as it was Veterans Day weekend.
After a threecourse gourmet dinner ending with a dessert assortment by Nothing Bundt Cakes Stephanie thanked everyone for supporting Hopes Door by attending the gala and encouraged the crowd to participate in the fundraising opportunities soon to come. She recognized presenting sponsors Nancy C. and Richard R. Rogers and the Becks as honorary chairs noting that since Tania could not attend Glenn was joined by their daughter Mary Cate.
LaShon Ross a member of the board presented Stephanie with an exquisite strand of pearls donated by jeweler Carter Malouf who is also a member of the host committee with his wife Jill. She introduced a moving video highlighting the message of Hopes Door emphasizing they are here to help heal families affected by domestic violence. She asked the board to stand thanking them for their devoted service.
After a spirited game of headsandtails board Secretary Ann Dunham announced Jessica Bair and The Mary Kay Foundation as recipients of the Heroes of Hope Award for their generous grant in helping with emergency shelter renovations and ongoing support. Jessica received an exquisite Waterford clock donated by Bachendorfs.Jessica said she was honored to receive the award and emphasized that Hopes Door is crucial to the victims of domestic violence and helps them become survivors.
Suzanne who joined Hopes Door this past summer said the agency is making a difference in peoples lives through education. With the leadership of Grishman Hopes Door is poised for growth and ready for support to move it forward to the next stage. She said the morning after Glenn and Tania toured the safe shelter Glenn shared his experience with his radio audience and sold over raffle tickets for the beautiful CLA Class MercedesBenz donated by MercedesBenz of Plano. Only tickets were sold at each with proceeds benefiting the programs and services of Hopes Door.
Taking the stage to a standing ovation Glenns very personal and emotionally charged story touched the hearts of everyone in the ballroom. With many in tears as he ended his presentation he said Hopes Door gives hope for a future to so many and encouraged everyone to continue their support because they can truly make a difference in peoples lives. Emotions ran high as another standing ovation rang through the room.
Following the FundACause call for donations the live auction was a rousing success including three tours of Becks studio and lunch a wine lovers experience visiting Jordan Vineyards MichelSchlumberger and Lail Vineyards a VIP family membership at the Frisco Gun Club Chef John Coleman owner of Savor Restaurant offered a private chef experience Trident Response Group will host an interactive training program and topping it all off the actor Burton Gilliam who starred in Blazing Saddles took the stage and helped move the crowd in bidding on a Blazing Saddles movie script signed by Mel Brooks including lunch with Burton.
Limelight took the stage and the crowd filled the dance floor until the lights came on. The gala was a huge success everyone in smiles taking home sweets from the candy bar.Hopes Door mission is to offer intervention and prevention services to individuals and families affected by domestic violence and to provide education programs that enhance the communitys capacity to respond. Learn more by visiting the website at www.hopesdoorinc.org or call .
Ohio passed a law that allows an individual to get a protection order against a minor such as in teen dating violence when the offender is under years of age. But not all states allow that. Click here to read more.
To empower individuals educate the community and advocate for justice to end domestic violence and child abuse.
These sickening pictures show the horrific injuries suffered by a mumofthree at the hands of her monster former partner.
Brave Sonia Saxby whose vicious boyfriend David Hateley used a pair of scissors in a brutal sex attack has waived her right to anonymity to raise awareness and support other victims.
The graphic pictures show her injuries after being subjected a vicious beating and sexual assault in November last year.
She now wants to show other victims that they can escape and build a better life for themselves.
The ordeal of the mumofthree from Trowbridge Wilts was described at Winchester Crown Court where Hateley her partner for nearly three years was jailed for ten years.
With her daughter Anna shes launched a campaign to raise money for the charities that helped her and to assist other victims through the website GoFundMe.
What greeted us was a nightmare mum was beaten bruised bleeding and we thought we were going to lose her.
The months that followed took outstanding courage and bravery from our mum to make sure justice was served.
Sonia said that from the minute she sought help she had support every step of the way.
The Bobby Van charity handymen arrived to increase security at her home in the hours after the attack and a Victim Support volunteer spent the entire day with her when she had to give evidence in court.
Anna said That lady was even with her holding her hand in the witness box when she had to read out her victim impact statement.
It was just amazing the amount of support and all from charities. They get a shoestring budget and those domestic violence support workers the lady in the court and so on theyre all volunteers.
She wanted to speak out publicly not for herself but to raise awareness for other women.
She wants to tell them that the grass is greener on the other side and they do not have to continue in an abusive relationship. It will always be better to break away.
Every penny raised will be donated between the domestic violence charities the Bobby Van and Victim Support who were amazing. But even if we only raise awareness that might save one person we as a family will be proud.
Det Cons Sara Robert of Wilthsire Police said It is fantastic to get such a prison sentence for what was a horrific attack. Sonia has been marvellous and has conducted herself throughout with dignity and poise.
When she went to court she read out her witness statement herself and was incredibly brave. She has three children and they have been very supportive.
She wont be the first or the last to suffer an assault at the hands of someone who was supposed to be a loved one.
Justice has been done and she just wanted to ensure that her story is out there and that it has done some good.
The yearold had previously attacked Seaman Simon Smith and controlled his finances during their doomed marriage
Kate Friday has chosen to bravely speak out about her ordeal in order to warn other victims of domestic violence how to spot the danger signs
These sickening pictures show the horrific injuries suffered by a mumofthree at the hands of her monster former partner.
Brave Sonia Saxby whose vicious boyfriend David Hateley used a pair of scissors in a brutal sex attack has waived her right to anonymity to raise awareness and support other victims.
The graphic pictures show her injuries after being subjected a vicious beating and sexual assault in November last year.
She now wants to show other victims that they can escape and build a better life for themselves.
The ordeal of the mumofthree from Trowbridge Wilts was described at Winchester Crown Court where Hateley her partner for nearly three years was jailed for ten years.
With her daughter Anna shes launched a campaign to raise money for the charities that helped her and to assist other victims through the website GoFundMe.
What greeted us was a nightmare mum was beaten bruised bleeding and we thought we were going to lose her.
The months that followed took outstanding courage and bravery from our mum to make sure justice was served.
Sonia said that from the minute she sought help she had support every step of the way.
The Bobby Van charity handymen arrived to increase security at her home in the hours after the attack and a Victim Support volunteer spent the entire day with her when she had to give evidence in court.
Anna said That lady was even with her holding her hand in the witness box when she had to read out her victim impact statement.
It was just amazing the amount of support and all from charities. They get a shoestring budget and those domestic violence support workers the lady in the court and so on theyre all volunteers.
She wanted to speak out publicly not for herself but to raise awareness for other women.
She wants to tell them that the grass is greener on the other side and they do not have to continue in an abusive relationship. It will always be better to break away.
Every penny raised will be donated between the domestic violence charities the Bobby Van and Victim Support who were amazing. But even if we only raise awareness that might save one person we as a family will be proud.
Det Cons Sara Robert of Wilthsire Police said It is fantastic to get such a prison sentence for what was a horrific attack. Sonia has been marvellous and has conducted herself throughout with dignity and poise.
When she went to court she read out her witness statement herself and was incredibly brave. She has three children and they have been very supportive.
She wont be the first or the last to suffer an assault at the hands of someone who was supposed to be a loved one.
Justice has been done and she just wanted to ensure that her story is out there and that it has done some good.
The yearold had previously attacked Seaman Simon Smith and controlled his finances during their doomed marriage
Kate Friday has chosen to bravely speak out about her ordeal in order to warn other victims of domestic violence how to spot the danger signs
Ohio passed a law that allows an individual to get a protection order against a minor such as in teen dating violence when the offender is under years of age. But not all states allow that. Click here to read more.
To empower individuals educate the community and advocate for justice to end domestic violence and child abuse.
Its been a big month for domestic violence and sexual assault coveragestarting with that unhinged George F. Will piece in The Washington Post. Were here to catch you up on some essential reading that will inform enlighten and in the case of Wills piece probably enrage.
. In light of the Obama administrations Title IX efforts columnist George F. Will argued that sexual assault victimhood is now a coveted status among women on college campuses.
. For a cogent response to his ridiculous piece read Salons takedown by Katie McDonough. Or just visit Project Unbreakable. For what its worth Will stood by his opinions.
. Not long after the Post published a piece suggesting that a good way for women to protect themselves against domestic violence is to get married.
. Luckily the Atlantic The New York Times and others promptly questioned the authors use of statistics and called this ridiculous. The DC Coalition Against Domestic Violence also has a powerful response.
. In Virginia James Madison University punished three frat brothers for sexually assaulting a woman by expelling themafter graduation. Students started a petition protesting the bizarre punishment and who better than Jon Stewart to mock them
. New York Times columnist Ross Douthat offereda more sympathetic but shortsighted take on campus rape suggesting that the beer and circus culture on college campuses is to blame especially for wealthy students.
. Soccer star Hope Solo apologized to fans following a domestic violence incident at her home.
. Meanwhile even Disney is being leveraged to join the fight to increase domestic abuse awareness. The Princest Diaries poster series shows iconic Disney princesses forced to kiss their fathers.
. And finally on a progressive note Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal introduced the Lori Jackson Domestic Violence Survivor Protection Act restricting those under temporary restraining order from purchasing or possessing a firearm and extending the protections granted domestic violence victims to victims abused by dating partners.
Pirates AllStars Say NO MORE to Gender Violence In New Public Service Announcements
Thirtyeight domestic violence suspects are behind bars after a yearlong initiative to crack down on the crime in Muskogee County.
Well I think domestic violence is a problem everywhere and we recognize that said District Attorney Orvil Loge. As long as the origination of that charge came from a domestic violence call and ultimately the warrant was issued we executed.
Loges office received a federal grant to help crack down on domestic violence more than a year ago. That allowed him to hire a special prosecutor and investigator who ended up issuing warrants even on the most difficult cases.
Loge said If the victim does not want to prosecute requests a dismissal or doesnt want to show up for a subpoena that we still collect the evidence in these cases to go forward.
Of those arrests many had previous convictions that included domestic violence.
And already many of those arrested are going through the justice system like Chester Creller who pleaded guilty to kidnapping domestic abuse in the presence of a child and assault and battery just last week.
While Loge called the operation successful he said they wont stop cracking down on domestic violence.
Tulsa police now say they have a second gunshot victim hit by bullets fired into the air at Tulsas FreedomFest on Monday night.
Tulsa police now say they have a second gunshot victim hit by bullets fired into the air at Tulsas FreedomFest on Monday night.
Morning thunderstorms will pass through leaving heat advisories and warnings in Green Country Wednesday.
Morning thunderstorms will pass through leaving heat advisories and warnings in Green Country Wednesday.
TAOS PUEBLO New Mexico Thomson Reuters Foundation Father and son John Tsosie and Ernest Tsosie Jr. travel the American Southwest promoting awareness of domestic violence and abuse on Indian reservations and aiming their message at Native American men.
Here are some facts about Indian communities in the Southwest and elsewhere in the United States.
The Taos Pueblo is considered the oldest continuously inhabited community in the United States and it is a designated UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The Taos Pueblo has about enrolled tribal members and fewer than half live on the reservation. A few families live in the ancient adobe dwellings with no electricity or running water.
To the west the Navajo Nation is the largest sovereign Indian territory in the United States. It is more than square miles square km about the size of Ireland and larger than of the U.S. states with a population of about .
Unemployment in the Navajo Nation is percent and percent of residents live below the official poverty line according to U.S. Census data.
Native Americans have the lowest employment rate of any racial or ethnic group in the United States according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
High school graduation rates among Native Americans are among the lowest of any racial or ethnic population according to the Civil Rights Project a research and policy think tank.
The percentage of homes that are overcrowded on reservations is three to six times higher than those in the United States as a whole according to the Housing Assistance Council a nonprofit advocacy group.
As of more than tribal homes lacked access to basic water sanitation services according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
About one in American Indian homes is without safe and reliable water according to the Indian Health Service.
Welcome to our website You can learn more aboutdomesticabuseandsexualviolenceand stalkingon this site and the services available to victims through ourmember programs. If you or someone you know is experiencing abuse please call one of the hotlines listed in theget help fast boxto the right.
Ournews and eventspage has important information on what is happening in New Hampshire whether it is updates on important victim centered legislation at the statehouse or awareness events happening in your community. You can also stay up to date by signing up for our enewsletter or joining us on Facebook and Twitter.
We are always interested in your feedback. Please feel free tocontact usanytime
NHCADSV Marriott Familyresponse to NH Supreme Court ruling jeopardizing victims privacy rights
Call our hotlines anywhere in New Hampshire for support. Stalking victims should call the Domestic Violence Hotline. TTY availableat RelayNH.
The member programs of the New Hampshire Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence provide services regardless of genderage health status including HIVpositive physical mental or emotional ability sexual orientation gender identityexpression socioeconomic status race national origin immigration status or religious or political affiliation. 
Bride tortured to death for dowry School going kid succumbs to his injuries after beaten by father A seventy year old man killed over property dispute Harassment of men in Chandigarh
All these and what not turn to any newspaper at random and you would find the reports of such kind of violence all over the country. These are all what we come to know through different forms of media. There are more such cases which go unreported every day. In fact include the cases which we selfindulge in or the ones which we witness in the neighbourhood but are hesitant in taking even a single step to reduce their occurrences.
In our society violence is bursting. It is present almost everywhere and nowhere is this eruption more intense than right behind the doors of our homes. Behind closed doors of homes all across our country people are being tortured beaten and killed. It is happening in rural areas towns cities and in metropolitans as well. It is crossing all social classes genders racial lines and age groups. It is becoming a legacy being passed on from one generation to another.
The term used to describe this exploding problem of violence within our homes is Domestic Violence. This violence is towards someone who we are in a relationship with be it a wife husband son daughter mother father grandparent or any other family member. It can be a males or a females atrocities towards another male or a female. Anyone can be a victim and a victimizer. This violence has a tendency to explode in various forms such as physical sexual or emotional.
Since times immemorial domestic violence has been an intrinsic part of the society we are living in. The contributing factors could be the desire to gain control over another family member the desire to exploit someone for personal benefits the flare to be in a commanding position all the time showcasing ones supremacy so on and so forth. On various occasions psychological problems and social influence also add to the vehemence. The present essay deals with the various forms of domestic violence prevalent in India. Their causes of occurrence in households have been analyzed categorically. The variation in the intensity of the forms with change in the geographical location and culture has also been addressed. The aftereffects of different kinds of domestic violence and the possible remedies have been highlighted. Finally a conclusion has been drawn after the complete analysis of the topic with the juxtaposition of facts and figures at hand.
This form of domestic violence is most common of all. One of the reasons for it being so prevalent is the orthodox and idiotic mindset of the society that women are physically and emotionally weaker than the males. Though women today have proved themselves in almost every field of life affirming that they are no less than men the reports of violence against them are much larger in number than against men. The possible reasons are many and are diversified over the length and breadth of the country. According to United Nation Population Fund Report around twothird of married Indian women are victims of domestic violence and as many as per cent of married women in India between the age of and are victims of beating rape or forced sex. In India more than percent of the women suffer from domestic violence especially in the states of Bihar U.P. M.P. and other northern states.
The most common causes for women stalking and battering include dissatisfaction with the dowry and exploiting women for more of it arguing with the partner refusing to have sex with him neglecting children going out of home without telling the partner not cooking properly or on time indulging in extra marital affairs not looking after inlaws etc. In some cases infertility in females also leads to their assault by the family members. The greed for dowry desire for a male child and alcoholism of the spouse are major factors of domestic violence against women in rural areas. There have been gruesome reports of young bride being burnt alive or subjected to continuous harassment for not bringing home the amount of demanded dowry. Women in India also admit to hitting or beating because of their suspicion about the husbands sexual involvement with other women. The Tandoor Murder Case of Naina Sahni in New Delhi in the year is one such dreadful incident of a woman being killed and then burnt in a Tandoor by his husband. This incidence was an outcome of suspicion of extra marital affairs of Naina Sahni which led to marital discord and domestic violence against her.
In urban areas there are many more factors which lead to differences in the beginning and later take the shape of domestic violence. These include more income of a working woman than her partner her absence in the house till late night abusing and neglecting inlaws being more forward socially etc. Working women are quite often subjected to assaults and coercion sex by employees of the organization. At times it could be voluntary for a better pay and designation in the office.
Violence against young widows has also been on a rise in India. Most often they are cursed for their husbands death and are deprived of proper food and clothing. They are not allowed or encouraged for remarriage in most of the homes especially in rural areas. There have been cases of molestation and rape attempts of women by other family members in nuclear families or someone in the neighbourhood. At times women are even sexually coerced by their partner themselves against their will. They are brutally beaten and tortured for not conceiving a male child. Incidents like ripping off a womans womb for killing the female foetus when she disagrees for abortion have also come to light especially in rural areas. Female foeticide and female infanticide continue to be a rising concern.
Other forms of physical abuse against women include slapping punching grabbing burdening them with drudgery public humiliation and the neglect of their health problems. Some of the other forms of psychological torment against them could be curtailment of their rights to selfexpression and curbing the freedom to associate with the natal family and friends.
There is no question that domestic violence directed against women is a serious and bigger problem but domestic violence against men is also increasing gradually in India. The supremacy of men in the society makes one believe that they are not vulnerable to domestic violence. Battering of men by their spouse and family members has become a concerned issue and is another form of domestic violence under purview of judiciary. In India compared to violence against women violence against men is less frequent but it has already taken a deadly shape in many of the western countries by now.
Males have reported incidences of assault against them like pushing shoving slapping grabbing hitting which are intended to harm them and also take their lives on many occasions. Recently hundreds of husbands gathered in Chandigarh and Shimla to voice their opinion for mens rights and protection against domestic violence subjected to them by their wives and other family members. It reflects the need for a special law for curbing domestic violence against men in present times.
If we contemplate over the reasons behind this form of domestic violence we would find some of the possible causes such as not abiding by the instructions of the wives inadequate earning of men infidelity towards wives not helping the partner in household activities not taking a proper care of children abusing the spouses family infertility of men spying the activities of partner doubting the partner all the time and not trusting her revolt by the wife when asked to look after inlaws etc. On many occasions the spat between men and women becomes public thereby influencing the society around especially in the villages. In urban areas such forms of violence may go unreported because of greater privacy. Also the families find their reputation at stake in urban areas.
Children and teenagers in our society are not spared from the evil of domestic violence. In fact this form of violence is second in terms of number of reported cases after the violence against women. There is a lot of variation in the form of its occurrence in urban and rural areas and in uppermiddle class and lower class families in India. In urban regions it is more private and concealed within the four walls of homes. The possible reasons could be disobeying parental advises and orders poor performance in academics or not being at par with other children in neighbourhood debating with parents and other family members etc. In addition to this factors like not being socially intelligent or as active as the parents expect them to be abusing the parents or speaking ill about other family members not returning home on time are some other factors.
In rural areas the reasons could be harassment for child labour physical abuse or harm for not following family traditions forcing them to stay at home and not allowing them to go to school etc. Domestic violence against girls is in fact more severe at homes. As the common mob mentality of India prefers to have at least one male child after marriage the girls in most of the occasions are cursed and assaulted for having taken birth in the home. This kind abuse is prevalent both in cities and villages but is more common in latter case. Then there are cases of paedophilia causing sexual harassment of children in homes by family member themselves. In fact the number of rape cases of prematured girls has been rising since last few years. A survey of teens and college students found that rape accounted for percent of sexual assaults in girls. Apart from sexual abuse and rape pushing slapping punching stalking and emotional abuse are other forms of domestic violence against children.
Adding to the above mentioned causes there are also instances of abuse against children who are physically andor mentally challenged. Instead of providing them proper health care and treating them politely these children are beaten and harassed for not cooperating and attending to what family members ask them to do. They are even emotionally abused by cursing them having been in such retarded or handicapped state. In fact in poor families there have been reports of selling body organs of the retarded children for getting money in return. It reflects the height of cruelness and violence against innocent children.
This form of domestic violence refers to the violence which old people at home are subjected to by their children and other family members. This category of domestic violence largely goes underreported in India. It is because of the dependency of olds on their children and having a fear of not being looked after or even ousted if the violence is revealed in public. The main causes of violence against aged people are children being hesitant in bearing the expenses of the old parents emotionally victimising the olds and beating them to death to get rid of them. On various occasions they are beaten for doing something against the desire of family members. One of the very common reasons includes torture for property grabbing.
A perturbing trend is the vulnerability of ageing women to domestic violence in various forms. Given existing structures of gender discrimination old women are prone to a greater risk than men of becoming victims of material exploitation financial deprivation property grabbing abandonment verbal humiliation emotional and psychological torment. When they fall seriously ill it is more likely that it is the elderly women in the family who will be denied proper health care. There is also a widespread understanding that the neglect deprivation and marginalisation of older women are the normal consequences of ageing. In fact the plight of young widows in homes as discussed above now becomes more serious as a result of the ageing of those women. They are cut off from the society they are living in ignored abused cursed and considered as bad omens. The atrocities of sons daughterinlaws daughters and husbands could be another cause of domestic violence specifically against older women. They are restrained from cooking housekeeping or participating in activities outside the home.
While it is difficult to accurately measure the extent of the problem on a national scale given the fact that most families deny that such abuse but we do know that the number of old people in our midst is growing. A current estimate puts the plus population at around million in India and is projected to have a population of million older people by . Given this demographic reality an important concern is the kind of action the country can take at the individual and societal level to alleviate abuse and neglect of elderly class.
There are some more possible forms of domestic violence prevalent in India other than the ones listed above. On a serious note family wars or clan wars are deadly forms of domestic violence across the country. The reason of such type of violence include dispute over property physically or emotionally abusing any member of other family or clan any religious cause or conflict arising during a religious ceremony jealousy because of progress and financial status of other family intercaste marriage etc. This form of violence is common in many states like Haryana Punjab Andhra Pradesh etc.
One of the other forms of domestic violence is illtreatment of servants and maids in households. In many of the affluent homes servants are deprived of their salary and basic necessities. They are harassed and beaten and to work without even taking adequate rest. Similarly maids are molested by males in the family. Atrocities against small children working as servants are common and increasing.
To some extent media is also responsible for contributing to all the above forms of violence. The exaggerated news coverage of reports of domestic violence the daily soaps screening the torture of a daughterinlaw at the hands of family members the films portraying an element of violence against people of all age groups etc. are some of the menaces which media is causing. It is influencing the mindset of the viewers strongly. The problem arises when instead of taking a lesson from those news clippings films and television shows people start enacting the same in their homes. Comparatively the visual media is far more influencing than the print and electronic media in these cases. Illiteracy and mob mentality of majority of Indians misguides them in all these cases.
There are varied consequences of domestic violence depending on the victim the age group the intensity of the violence and frequency of the torment they are subjected to. Living under a constant fear threat and humiliation are some of the feelings developed in the minds of the victims as a consequence of an atrocious violence. The consequences of the domestic violence in detail can be broadly categorised under the Effect on the victim himselfherself and the family Effect on the society and the Effect on nations growth and productivity. The Effect on the victim has been further subcategorized for women men children and olds.
Battered women have tendency to remain quiet agonised and emotionally disturbed after the occurrence of the torment. A psychological set back and trauma because of domestic violence affects womens productivity in all forms of life. The suicide case of such victimised women is also a deadly consequence and the number of such cases is increasing.
A working Indian woman may drop out from work place because of the illtreatment at home or office she may lose her inefficiency in work. Her health may deteriorate if she is not well physically and mentally. Some women leave their home immediately after first few atrocious attacks and try to become selfdependent. Their survival becomes difficult and painful when they have to work hard for earning two meals a day. Many such women come under rescue of women welfare organizations like Women Welfare Association of India WWAI Affus Woman Welfare Association AWWA and Womans Emancipation and Development Trust WEDT. Some of them who leave their homes are forcefully involved in women trafficking and pornography. This results in acquiring a higher risk of becoming a drug addict and suffering from HIVAIDS. Some of course do it by their choice.
One of the severe effects of domestic violence against women is its effect on her children. It is natures phenomenon that a child generally has a greater attachment towards the mother for she is the one who gives birth. As long as the violence subjected to the mother is hidden from the child heshe may behave normally at home. The day when mothers grief and suffering is revealed a child may become upset about the happening deeply. Children may not even comprehend the severity of the problem. They may turn silent reserved and express solace to the mother. When the violence against women is openly done in front of them since their childhood it may have a deeper and gruesome impact in their mindset. They get used to such happenings at home and have a tendency to reciprocate the same in their lives. Its common in especially in rural homes in India which are victimised by the evil of domestic violence.
In cases of Intimate Partner Violence IPV violence against women leads them to maintain a distance from their partner. Their sexual life is affected adversely. Many of them file for divorce and seek separation which again affects the life of children. Some continue to be exploited in lack of proper awareness of human rights and laws of the constitution.
The consequences against violence against men in India is largely emotional and psychological in nature. The physical harassment resulting from domestic violence also affects their lives and productivity but it is still more inclined towards the emotional problems which men face in India. It is largely because many such cases go unreported as compared to cases of physical assault of women. An emotionally harassed and depressed man may lose interest in the occupation he is associated with. If he is the only breadearning person in the family the family may find it difficult to survive. There has been a spate of farmers suicide in recent years in Karnataka. Several farmers have committed suicide not only because of indebtedness but also because of discord in family and depression resulting out of it. According to statistics of Save India Family Foundation an NGO around . lac harassed husbands have committed suicide in the country in the last four years.
Consequences of Violence Against ChildrenTeens The consequences in case of children are far more drastic and its effect is long lived. Children are sensitive to issues related to violence of any kind as they are not mature enough to comprehend them. In their growing years they try to imitate things which they see happening around them. In the process of following their parents advice or instructions they become firm in their opinion and approach towards life. Now if the approach of parents itself is negative children are bound to get influenced by it. They may adopt the negative traits of the ill they see around them or develop a hostile approach in life because of the illtreatment they are subjected to. If a child is beaten badly for under performing in school he may do the same to his children thinking it might be the only possible way of making a person to work hard.
Whenever a child is dropped out of school because of poor financial condition or when he is engaged in some form of child labour there is a sudden leap which the child tries to take from his childhood to the manhood. In this process he misses out the values and morals a person should inculcate in him as a good human being. He fails to develop a vision to see things from an unbiased point of view. All these factors make a child insensitive towards the society and the societal needs. Every instance of child abuse causes a callous indifference to suffering.
However in the process of comprehending the wrong being done to them many children are traumatised and psychologically disturbed. They find it unsustainable and may lose out their mental soundness. Children who are victimised by physical violence may become handicapped as well. In some cases children prefer to run away from home and try to become self dependent. Some commit suicide. Some indulge in malpractices because of improper education and bad company they become a part of after leaving the home. Some even reciprocate the violence they are subjected to by harming the family members.
Girls also develop a feeling of insecurity in their homes when they are sexually exploited. They lose their selfconfidence and desire for living. A girl child from violent home can withdraw from society and become completely depressed. Children from violent homes become disobedient and violent and start using aggression to solve their problems. Adolescents may succumb to drugs and alcohol when treated harshly. Some helpless and abandoned children are picked up gangs who sell their organs for making huge amount of money. In most of the cities the group of beggars at traffic lights or railway platforms are the abandoned children who are physically deformed forcefully for begging. The children who escape being a part of this vicious circle are looked after by children welfare organizations like Indian Child Welfare Association ICWA Child Relief and You CRY and ChildLine etc.
The elderly abuse is one of the most unfortunate happening for the elderly class in their lives. They would rather like to be more at ease and calm in this phase of their life than being prone to such kind of shameful treatment by the family or society. Ironically elderly class itself also indulges in harming each other. Many of the elderly men continue to beat and harass their wives throughout their lives.
Some of the olds are ousted from home by their children some are beaten until death and some are exploited socially. A sense of insecurity dodges them all the time. They are isolated and cut off from society in some cases where son and daughterinlaw do not let them interact and move around freely in the society. The old people are not looked after properly and their health problems are neglected. Due to the abuse and mental trauma they suffer some of them leave home and stay in old age homes like HelpAge India Senior Citizen Home Complex Welfare Society SCHCWS and many others.
All the different forms of violence discussed in this essay adversely affect the society. Violence against women may keep them locked in homes succumbing to the torture they face. If they come out in open and reveal the wrong done to them for help and rescue it influences the society both positively and negatively. At one hand where it acts as an inspiration and ray of hope for other suffering women on the other hand it also spoils the atmosphere of the society. When something of this kind happens in the society few families may witness the evil of domestic violence knocking their door steps. Some families try to imitate what others indulge in irrespective of it being good or bad for the family.
As mentioned earlier domestic violence affects the productivity level of the victim negatively. Men and women lose interest in household activities. If they are employed they fail to work with full capabilities in workplace. Children are found to concentrate less on studies. They drop out of school and do not get the education which otherwise they might have got if they were not tormented and thus the country loses a productive asset. Therefore the nations productivity altogether gets affected because of domestic violence in homes. When old people are tortured and physically abused they separate themselves from family members and their daily activities are restricted to themselves. The guardianship they can provide out of their experience the moral values which they can instil in the grandchildren are all not done as they are unwanted in their own homes. People need to spend their part of income for medication when they are met with worse forms of domestic violence which again leads to loss in productive use of a familys income. The cumulative effect of the domestic violence at all levels and across all regions is the countrys hindered development and slow economic growth.
A very important question in wake of domestic violence remedies is that what exactly we are looking for in the process of minimising their occurrences. Is it so that we want to gather more information about such cases for just expressing our concern over this issue with more accuracy having facts and figures at hand Or instead of just raising our voices we want to clean up the mess with shear force and determination
A recent study has concluded that violence against women is the fastestgrowing crime in India. According to a latest report prepared by Indias National Crime Records Bureau NCRB a crime has been recorded against women in every three minutes in India. Every minutes two women are raped in this country. Every six hours a young married woman is found beaten to death burnt or driven to suicide.
The response to the phenomenon of domestic violence is a typical combination of effort between law enforcement agencies social service agencies the courts and correctionsprobation agencies. The role of all these has progressed over last few decades and brought their activities in public view. Domestic violence is now being viewed as a public health problem of epidemic proportion all over the world and many public private and governmental agencies are seen making huge efforts to control it in India. There are several organizations all over the world government and non government actively working to fight the problems generated by domestic violence to the human community.
In domestic violence was recognised as a specific criminal offence by the introduction of section A into the Indian Penal Code. This section deals with cruelty by a husband or his family towards a married woman. The main legislative measures at the national level for the children who become a victim of child labor include The Child Labor Prohibition and Regulation Act and The Factories Act . The first act was categorical in prohibiting the employment of children below fourteen years of age and identified processes and occupations which were considered dangerous to the health and lives of children. The factories act again prohibits the employment of children less than fourteen years of age.
The Government of India passed a Domestic Violence Bill To protect the rights of women who are victims of violence of any kind occurring within the family and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto
An act called Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act DVA also has been passed. This Act ensures the reporting of cases of domestic violence against women to a Protection Officer who then prepares a Domestic Incident Report to the Magistrate and forward copies thereof to the police officer in charge of the police station within the local limits of jurisdiction
Unfortunately at present there is no single law in the Indian Constitution which can strictly deal
with all the different forms of Domestic Violence as discussed in this essay. There is an urgent need for such a law in the country. In fact there has also been misuse of section A and DVA because of restricted definition of cruelty subjected to married women.
The role of nongovernmental organizations in controlling the domestic violence and curbing its worse consequences is crucial. Sakshi a violence intervention agency for women and children in Delhi works on cases of sexual assault sexual harassment child sexual abuse and domestic abuse and focuses on equality education for judges and implementation of the Supreme Courts sexual harassment guidelines. Womens Rights Initiative another organization in the same city runs a legal aid cell for cases of domestic abuse and works in collaboration with law enforcers in the area of domestic violence.
Your browser may not support display of this image. In Mumbai bodies like Majlis and Swaadhar are doing meaningful works in this field. Sneha in Chennai and Vimochana in Bangalore are working on many womens issues arising from domestic abuse. They are also doing active work in issues related to labour. Services ranging from counselling education and outreach giving provisions and mobilizing them for gaining selfconfidence are provided to them. Anweshi is a womens counselling centre in Kozhikode providing meditation resource and counselling for battered women. All the above bodies have their own registered offices contact numbers and websites for those who want to seek help. There are at present only few NGOs for welfare of men like Social Welfare Association for Men SWAM in Chennai. Few more such organizations need to be opened for the help of abused men.
These NGOs continue to spread awareness amongst people regarding the legal rights they have in hand for fighting against the atrocities they are subjected to. They are encouraging more and more people to report any case of domestic violence so that proper action may be taken against the culprits.
Police plays a major role in tackling the domestic violence cases. They need to be sensitized to treat domestic violence cases as seriously as any other crime. Special training to handle domestic violence cases should be imparted to police force. They should be provided with information regarding support network of judiciary government agenciesdepartments. Gender training should be made mandatory in the trainings of the police officers. There should be a separate wing of police dealing with womens issues attached to all police stations and should be excluded from any other duty.
Authorities should take steps to recognize Domestic Violence as a public health issue. A crisis support cell needs to be established in all major Government and Private Hospitals with a trained medical social worker for provide appropriate services. Training programmes must be organized for health professionals in order to develop their skills to provide basic support for abused people. Documentation on the prevalence and the health consequences of domestic violence should be undertaken by the concerned government departments health care institutions NGOs and counselling centres. A nodal agency should also be set up for the annual consolidation of the documented work and publish the same for wider publicity among the masses for increasing awareness.
Conclusion Having looked at a sensitive topic of Domestic Violence in India we can sense the importance of discussion of such a topic. The varying causes which can spark the violence within the four walls of homes need to be analysed carefully and a wise study of the factors causing the violence may prevent a family to suffer from the menace of domestic violence. The domestic violence may have a far wider and deeper impact in real life than what has been covered in this essay. What is required is to see closely the association of the factors provoking a particular form of domestic violence. If these factors can be controlled then more than one form of violence can be prevented from harming an individual or our society and India would be a much better place to live in.
Joshi M. M. . The Protection From Domestic Violence Bill. Government Bill. Bill No. of 
The writer is a Goa based Correspondent of Youth Ki Awaaz and also a student at BITS Pilani Goa Campus.
YouthKiAwaaz.com is an award winning Indias largest online and mobile platform for young people to express themselves on issues of critical importance. This article has been written by a Youth Ki Awaaz JournalistContributor. You can submit an article too. Click here to write for Youth Ki Awaaz or to submit a photo or a video.
If you sign up with Google Twitter or Facebook well automatically import your bio which you will be able to editchange after logging in. Also well never post to Twitter or Facebook without your permission. We take privacy very seriously. 
there are many daughters like me suffering from mentally torture given by real moms and people feel its not true no hope to come out of it if any one can help me outor else no other option but to kill my own self
my sister is a victim of domestic violence. her husband is a very aggressive person. he mentally physically abused her many times. she have a one year old daughter. pls suggest how can i help her
Human rights groups have turned to technology to build up a body of more objective and valid evidence regarding the violations in IsraelPalestine.
The recent outbreak offire at the Deonar dumping groundin Mumbai has reignited the discourse around waste management system in the country.
In All Quiet on the Western Front was banned for not being aligned with Nazi views. In the Indian Government draws a strikingly similar parallel.
The journey of a young man from being devout to atheism through reason and introspection traced by a friend.
Eminent writers after returning their state awards questioned the growing communalisation of politics and shrinking space for expression of dissent.
violates the liberty and dignity of an average man and his family law can see how vicious this law is and what its social implications 
the Domestic Violence DV Act in India. They claim that this law 
right state of mind would agree that domestic violence in a relationship emotional health and for the wellbeing of the children that the 
the law appears to be a blessing for people in abusive or violent relationships. However a careful analysis reveals that under the another misguided attempt to enact legislation to grant women legal supremacy over men and to create a society where men are deprived 
out men as perpetrators of domestic violence and assumes that only women are victims. As per this law only a woman can file a complaint against her male partner. A man who is a victim of domestic violence has no rights under this law. The fact is that it has been comprehensively proven in numerous studies please see references that women are no less abusive as men in intimate relationships. Giving such sweeping legal powers to women while withholding protection to male victims is tantamount to systematic legal victimization of men. In the western Indian version explicitly prohibits any male victim to seek relief 
flaw in this law is that it lends itself to such easy misuse that and false cases. A similar trend is already being observed in the extent that the Supreme Court has termed it Legal Terrorism. scenarios below. She means wifefemale livein partner and he means 
any amount of money from him for any reason whatsoever he is legally bound to pay that amount in full failing which he can be imprisoned. Under the pretext of preventing economic abuse of women this law asks for money from her he can be jailed for that as well. Furthermore 
she retains the right to the residence. This is a very convenient has any legal right on the property. Moreover if he is booked under DV he is responsible for paying the rent as well even though he may not be allowed to live in the house or he might even be in jail.
not to cook and wishes to eat out in a restaurant everyday he cannot afford not to oblige lest he invites the DV provision for not 
affair and he tries to prevent her from meeting her lover he could be punished under the DV act as he is preventing her from meeting 
is a relative term which is totally left to her discretion. Interestingly if she insults and abuses him verbally or even physically he does 
of the ways in which women can exploit men in a legally permitted new realm of possibilities where innocent men will be accused and implicated in false cases just because they refuse to give in to 
agree that the law will be misused. Their counter arguments generally 
of miuses will be very low OR every law is misused The objective of any law should be to punish the guilty and protect the innocent. The persecution of innocents cannot be justified in any circumstances. As is the case with a this law will be heavily misused in urban 
at the mercy of the woman. If the wife wants to kick out old parents from home or wants to pursue an affair and should the man dare to pleasure of another section is deemed oppressive and should be vehemently 
is that there are other legal provisions to deal with domestic violence as well. If a strict law is made for a specific purpose then the provisions for dealing with its misuse should be in the law itself.
in this law is that it provides an allencompassing definition of domestic violence and some terms insults name calling are extremely subjective. The radical feminists claim that of women in India face domestic violence which comes as no surprise as even an insult how many indian men suffer domestic violence using the same criteria. intolerance and litigation for petty domestic disputes. It is universally recognized that from time to time differences arise in a marriage towards each other. Most people though are able to work them out and lead a more or less happy life with their loved one. However daily life to such a level that it eventually leads to a breakdown in marriage. Once a man has been accused of domestic violence for subjected to the same treatment from her he will perpetually feel This law will lead to more divorces broken homes and the children will pay the ultimate price by getting deprived of a pleasant childhood.
be termed as domestic violence. This law trivializes the issue of domestic violence by including minor differences in its realm and 
form is grossly inadequate to tackle the problem of domestic violence. It imposes a lot of responsibility on men without giving them rights. On the other hand it gives lots of rights to women without requiring them to be responsible. At the very minimum it should be made gender neutral offering protection to both men and women. Also provisions for stringent punishments need to be incorporated into the law to prevent misuse. Moreover the law needs to be made more practical by differentiating between various degrees of conflicts and by unambiguously 
is needed to protect the genuine victims of domestic violence irrespective of gender. The perpetrators of domestic violence need to be appropriately withheld from real victims for any reason whatsoever least of all their gender. One can be certain that there is something sinister about a law when it intimidates and instills fear in innocent people. When a person who has not committed any crime begins to fear punishment 
ONE IN THREE CAMPAIGNOne in three victims of family violence is maleIt appears that your web browser does not support JavaScript or you have temporarily disabled scripting. Either way this site wont work without it.
This page contains a selection of recent news articles and commentary about male victims of violence and abuse plus related issues. These articles are presented as a community service and do not necessarily reflect the views of the One in Three Campaign.
Please send any relevant news articles to us by clicking here and we will post them on this page.
A recent Australian study has disproved the claim that men rarely experience violence abuse fear control and coersion after separation.
In October the Australian Institute of Family Studies AIFS released its Experiences of Separated Parents Study part of its evaluation of the family violence amendments by the Federal Government.
The study examined the experiences of two cohorts of parents in and the latter a total of parents who separated between July and December representing parents postreform experience of the family law system.
The data indicate that family violence is a common experience among separated parents with a majority of participating parents in both cohorts reporting either physical or emotional abuse.
These figures make a lie of the oftrepeated claim that men rarely experience postseparation violence for example here here here here here here here and here. There was no statistically significant difference between fathers and mothers in the frequency of reporting having often felt fearful after experiencing physical violence or emotional abuse since separation and fathers were statistically significantly more likely than mothers to report having often felt controlled or coerced after experiencing physical violence or emotional abuse since separation. When it came to severity fathers were also more likely than mothers to report experiencing the highest level of fear control and coersion on a point scale that they felt arising from the focus parents behaviour since separation. Experiences of control and coersion were statistically significantly higher for fathers than mothers.
The full report can be downloaded from aifs.gov.ausitesdefaultfilespublicationdocumentsefvaesps.pdf.
The first time Nicks wife punched him in the face was because he hadnt cleaned the bathtub properly.
At the time I felt that it was my job to fix it Nick says the male mentality is often that you fix things.
It was the year after they married and looking back yearold Nick can see the violence didnt come out of the blue. His wife well call her Imogen was continually picking aggressive verbal arguments with him over minor domestic things such as how hed pegged out the clothes on the clothesline.
One minute shes lying in a foetal position on the floor and the next shes screaming at you that you dont pay enough attention or youve done something wrong he says.
Right from the outset Nick says Imogen worked towards isolating him from his closeknit family.
Statistically one in four women and one in six men suffer from domestic abuse and within these abusive relationships a vast percentage are nonviolent. These relationships operate on the premise of take take take.
Victims are isolated controlled told how to dress what to eat when to sleep. They are not allowed to work and are manipulated by threats of violence rape or the intervention of social services to take away children. They are humiliated and degraded and reality is continuous fear and uncertainty.
This is coercive control. This is domestic abuse and is now a crime in its own right.
The offence of Coercive and Controlling behaviour can be considered if the perpetrators behaviour has had serious effect on the victim meaning that it has caused the victim to fear violence will be used against them on at least two occasions or it has had a substantial adverse effect on the victims day to day activities. The maximum prison term is five years.
That is why the Surrey Against Domestic Abuse partnership has launched a campaign to promote the help and support available to people experiencing domestic abuse. Named Give and Take this campaign also seeks to make friends and family of those who are being abused by a partner or family member more aware of their role in taking action. Domestic abuse can happen to both men and women and regardless of sexual orientation ethnicity age class religion or physical ability.
Throughout the campaign we will be using the hashtag behindcloseddoors on Twitter. Join in the conversation and help us encourage more people to seek support and safety.
. Calling the hour yourSanctuary helpline for information and advice on .
Social justice journalist Ginger Gorman is looking for case studies for a story shes writing on female perpetrators of domestic violence.
The One in Three Campaigns submission to the Senate Finance and Public Administration Committeesinquiry into domestic violence and gender inequality has been published on the inquirys website.
Typical framing of partner abuse as a heterosexual issuewith men abusing womendoes a disservice to victims in abusive homosexual relationships.
Two months into their relationship Chriss boyfriend Jos pushed him to the ground in a fit of anger and ripped the clothes off his body. We had gone out dancing and when we got home I was changing in front of him said Chris .
I had on my favorite pair of underwear it was the pair I had worn the first time we went out. He saw the underwear and just flew into a rage saying How dare you wear those Those are for me
Jos threw him on the floor of their bedroom closet and smashed the only light bulb in the room leaving them in darkness. He loomed above Chris on the floor as he tore the underwear away. That was the first time things had ever turned violent between the two.
I was in such a state of shock Chris recounted seven years later his fingers tapping at a wine glass stem and his brown eyes drifting. I thought Oh hes just jealous its the drinking and I let it go. There was a lot of drinking in this relationship. No drugs but lots of drinking.
The second time was worse. He was angry at somethingI cant remember whatand I was laughing said Chris. Jos again became incensed strode into the kitchen and grabbed a butcher knife. He pulled me by my hair had me on my knees and had the butcher knife at my neck.
Chris says he didnt react. At the time his sister was pregnant and he wanted to live to see his niece. I talked him down told him to give me the knife. I put my hand on his and we put the knife back in place together said Chris demonstrating by holding his two hands together.
That night Jos locked their bedroom door for fear that Chris would escape and tell someone. The next morning he told Chris You know I didnt mean it right
That was his way of apologizing to me Chris scoffed. The relationship lasted nine months but continued to affect Chris for years after it ended.
Sam describes himself as having been naive and impressionable during the time he was dating David. Hes not a stupid person Sam told me over Skype. He never hit me or threw things directly at me but he would frighten me enough to make me back down.
According to Sam David became increasingly controlling after they moved in together three or four months into their relationship. At that point because of the apartment lease he said it was too late to just up and go.
One of Davids main methods of control was evoking pity and threatening to harm himself.
He would get very sad and upset which in hindsight was a plea for compassion Sam said As time went on he became controlling through jealousy. Any attention that I didnt give to himwhether I gave it to friends family or other guys even just other gay men who were my friendshe would get very upset if I hung out with them too much.
David eventually forced Sam to open a joint bank account so that Sam couldnt stockpile any funds and move out. He increasingly tried to cut off Sams contacts with friends and family.
After two and a half years Sam managed to end the relationship after David admitted he had returned to using cocaine.
LaTesha is a consummate Queens girl. Tough and stoic behind her soft voice and hooded sweatshirt she is about to graduate from high school and wants to study criminal justice in college. She has already been beaten up by a girlfriend. It only happened when we got into an argument she said her brown eyes getting serious. If she felt like she was being disrespected she would swing at me.
We always argued she continued. But you know how a couple can argue and then just be back to normal We would argue be back to normal. When we argued again she would bring up the last argument. And it would just build up. There was always something to argue about and usually LaTesha said it was girls.
She was so insecure LaTesha recalled. If Id be hanging out with one of my friends who was a girl shed see me and say Whats this You cheating on me And I always told her You need to stop. And then we would get into it. It was a pattern. We would break up for one week get back together another. We must have broken up about times.
The final breakup happened when Monique landed several punches on LaTesha in front of the staff of Safe Space an LGBT community center in Jamaica Queens.
Chris Sam and LaTesha are smart people with educations plans and busy social lives. They all identify as homosexual and they all have had experiences with physically or psychologically abusive partners who left them financially mentally or emotionally damaged. Domestic violenceor as its often referred to today intimate partner violenceis usually discussed in the context of heterosexual relationships. But partner violence is also an issue in the LGBTQ community a fact that has only come to light in recent years.
TreAndre Valentine the Community Programs Coordinator at The NetworkLa Red a Bostonbased domestic violence support group specifically for LGBTQ people says that because domestic violence is still thought of as a heterosexual problem there can be major hurdles when trying to find funding and conduct research as well as when providing services to people who dont fit in the stereotype of a domestic violence survivor. The idea that a woman can be the one whos abusive throws a wrench in the traditional view Valentine said. The idea that only men can be batterers makes it a lot harder for men to get access to shelter.
Yejin Lee an associate at the AntiViolence Program in New York City said that the assumption of heterosexuality has been a huge stumbling block for gays and lesbians seeking refuge from an abuser. One problem is the way domestic violence has been framed for the past years she said. Since the entire movement against domestic abuse started as a battered womens movement Lee said we are ingrained to think that victims are all are married straight women.
As a mental health counselor with the Violence Recovery Program in Boston Jessica Newman says that because the default assumption is that people are straight there can be an attitude within shelters that a gay person somehow deserved the violence. Samesex relationships are often demonized or marginalized she said So some peoples attitudes are it serves you right.
But Newman Lee and Valentine all added that there are also internal factors that keep a cover of darkness over the issue of domestic violence in the gay community.
There can be a fear of making the community look bad said Newman. Some people might have a real and legitimate fear of being looked down on or not finding services through the police judicial system or a shelter. People dont want that negative image of the community out there.
Valentine added Theres the idea that well be airing dirty laundry. It sort of discredits the community to say that abuse is happening after all the work weve been doing to enter mainstream society. Theres the feeling that we dont want to attach something additionally bad to us so its not talked about.
Sitting in a small restaurant near Madison Square Garden Chris mulled over his past. I know gay couples in the Bronx who beat the shit out of each other he said. The weird thing is its like fighting with your brother. Youre going at each other and youre not taking it seriously and you dont think of it as a problem its just the fabric of your relationship. But you dont realize its a piece of fabric you can cut out.
Raised in a conservative military family with a history of sexual abuse running on both sides Chris said he always felt like the odd one out growing up. I was raised to tolerate what was dished out he remembered. It was just dysfunctional. I grew up with a closeted uncle who died of AIDS and a mother who hit my father who would then turn around and hit us.
Chris moved from Chicago to New York when he was so that he could live life as an out gay man he said. I had a full time job full time benefits and my own apartment he said. That didnt last.
I grew up selfconscious. I was made to feel inferior at school and at home Chris continued. And I just lost all the selfesteem that I had found when I came here and came out. Im smart I graduated from college Ive won awards. And he just made me feel like so much less than I was. But the less happy he was the more I would try to fix things.
Chris sensed Jos wasnt happy but it never occurred to him that the relationship had turned bad or would soon turn physically violent.
I didnt tell anybody about the violence in the relationship Chris said. I didnt want to Theyre just going to tell you what you dont want to hear.
The summer after Jos moved in after those first incidents of violence Chris was mugged on the street outside their apartment. The thief punched him in the nose but when Chris went to run after him Jos grabbed his arm and stopped him.
He wouldnt let me call the cops recalled Chris. Jos didnt have legal papers to be in the U.S. and he was scared of what might happen.
Furious traumatized and gushing blood Chris turned around and backhanded Jos on the street. The two stood looking at each other. Chris remembers this as the moment when the relationship truly began to go downhill.
I didnt think about leaving until that moment he said. It got to the point where I was crying in public. I was crying at work. I couldnt speak my feelings.
The very last time Jos turned violent was close to the end of their relationship. He was always on the phone a lot Chris said. So one time I reached for his phone to go through it and see who he was talking to and he just grabbed my wrist and twisted.
By this point Chris remembers Jos was out all the time and coming home late or not coming home at all. In August of Chris kept a promise to himself. I told him I cant count on these fingers how many times youve lied Chris said spreading all ten fingers out on the table in front of him. And I promised myself once I couldnt count your lies on these fingers it would be over.
That night Chris went out without Jos. I told myself if I could kiss someone else then I didnt really love him. Well I kissed someone else and I went home and told him to move out.
Data on the rates of samesex partner abuse have only become available in recent years. Even today many of the statistics and materials on domestic violence put out by organizations like the Center for Disease Control and the Department of Justice still focus exclusively on heterosexual relationships and specifically heterosexual women. While the CDC does provide some resources on its website for the LGBT population the vast majority of the information is targeted at women. Materials provided by the CDC for violence prevention and survivor empowerment prominently feature women in their statistics and photographs.
The most recent statistics available on samesex intimate partner violence from the National Coalition of AntiViolence Programs which focuses on LGBT relationships reported incidents of intimate partner homicides in the LGBT community the highest ever. Nearly half of them were gay men and for the second year in a row the majority of survivors were people of color percent.
In NCAVP programs around the country received reports of intimate partner violence a decrease of around percent from . However the report noted that many of the NCAVPs member organizations were operating at decreased capacity due to limiting the number of cases they were able to take. The report said that excluding data from organizations there was actually a percent increase in reports of violence from to .
Statistics are very controversial wrote Curt Rogers executive director of the Gay Mens Domestic Violence Program in an email. And its possible that men are underreported. The bottom line for me is that it happens to men period so we should be inclusive in our approach and not marginalize the male victim population.
Valentine from The NetworkLa Red said that in his experience the rates of violence in the LGBTQ community seem comparable to those in the straight community. The rate of domestic violence that has been documented is one in four women and its pretty much the same for LGBTQ folks he said.
Reporting can be really difficult and historically we LGBTQ people have not had a very good relationship with police and law enforcement so folks may not be reporting it.
In any case he continued the police might not believe the victims when they call the attitude often being Youre both men work it out between yourselves or Women arent violent they dont hit each other.
Indeed according to the NCAVP report only . percent of survivors reported interacting with the police but in onethird of those cases the survivor was arrested instead of the abuser. A mere . percent of survivors reported seeking access to shelters.
We need to change the way we look at domestic violence Rogers said. I dont see it in any way as a gender issue. I see it as a power and a control issue.
Sam met his first and so far only boyfriend David outside of a club one night while he was in his second year of college. The first thing I remember thinking when I saw him was Oh God never he said laughing. As in I would never date somebody like that. He was very assertive almost a purposely bitchy persona which is not uncommon in the club scene.
But date they did. After a bit of flirting back and forth on Facebook within three or four months as Sam remembers it they were living together.
In hindsight said Sam I sort of already knew things were off which really should have been my chance to get away. But it wasnt until we moved in when I started to realize that amount of control that was going on.
David soon became aware that Sam was unhappy and according to Sam he increasingly tried to force a faade of a stable life and healthy relationship on him.
He went from using emotions to manipulate me to smashing things to threatening to commit suicide to threatening to harm our cat to threatening to ruin me in various wayssocially academically that kind of thing. About a year in I tried twice to get out of it. He would say Okay thats fine and then he would smash up the apartment. He would smash mirrors or push the Christmas tree over or threaten to kill himself. Thats usually when the threats became the worst when he was trying to control me into staying Sam said recounting once incident when he tried to break up with David and David smashed an entire rack of drying dishes saying Well I guess we dont need any couples dishes anymore.
Both men eventually grew depressed and Sam felt increasingly frightened and isolated by Davids behaviornot to mention embarrassed that the neighbors could always hear when David flew off the handle. He had only one friend he felt he could turn to who of course pleaded with Sam to break things off.
During this time David began slipping back into cocaine use and Sam buried himself in his studies. Focusing on earning an honors degree he said helped get him through.
Often he would try to guilt trip me about the time I spent doing school Sam recalled. But I was able to hang on to that as sort of a hope and a goal.
In December David forced Sam into an engagement. I was so afraid of what he was capable of Sam recalled. It was less problematic to keep this up than to break it up. Then in midAugust David came forward and admitted he had started using cocaine again.
I was in the shower said Sam. And he came in the washroom and said I have something to tell you. Ive been doing cocaine again. A lot of it and spending a good chunk of our money on it. Wed been really struggling moneywise like probably below poverty line at some points.
Sam got out of the shower and went out and David began making calls to friends and family admitting his problem telling them that hed been lying to them and taking money from them.
Years ago he had had one slip up Sam said. And I said Okay I get it youre a recovering addict. But you do it again you slip up again and its over. And thats the card I pulled. Id been looking for a way out for two years.
The psychology of domestic abuse both those who perpetrate it and those who survive it has been studied for years. Multiple factors have been shown to contribute including childhood abuse mental illness cultural norms stress and unbalanced power dynamics in the relationship.
Brian Norton has been a therapist in New York for years specializing in challenges related to gay men homophobia coming out etc. and couples therapy. He said that often a controlling or abusive personality forms in childhood.
We all recreate the same dynamics over and over again. Ninetynine if not percent of the time victims have had previous abusive relationships.
Abusive relationships are of course emotionally draining for the victim. Its disorienting Norton said. One minute theyre telling you they love you and being strong and loving and positive then theyre cheating on you or not respecting you and not paying attention to what you need.
Benjamin Seaman also a New Yorkbased therapist who has been practicing since specializes in polyamorous relationships and has also seen the full spectrum of gay couples. In Seamans philosophy violence and abuse are usually the tools of someone who feels powerless. Seaman agreed that bad relationships fuel other bad relationships and that sometimes the lingering stress of abusive childhood incidents leads to an ongoing shame in adulthood. This can further contribute to stress in a gay relationship said Seaman when one or both of the people are selfloathing gays.
Norton gave the example of one couple currently in his care. One person in the couple doesnt have his life together and his partner does. He feels intimidated and threatened by the success and stability of the partner. So he became abusive.
LaTesha the highschool student from Queens admits that when she was in first grade she used to do things that we werent supposed to do with a next door neighbors daughter. The first person she came out to was her best friend when she was . Her mother found out by reading her diary. She was just like You love girls now Not in my house and she started bashing me. And so I told her I would never tell her anything ever again.
LaTesha was when she met Monique who was in school. The two started dating and soon after started fighting. This scar on my neck Her she said softly massaging the thin line with her fingers. Thats from her nails.
LaTesha insists the two didnt physically fight often in their months together. Im not the type to do that she said. If I love somebody I will never put my hands on them. I just figured that she got mad and she swung. Thats what happens when people get madI didnt see it as she was beating me. I didnt see it as that. But then I had to realize thats not always the answer for when we get into altercations.
Others noticed. People would come to me and ask what happened cause I would usually have scratches or a little bruise on my face. Id tell them I got into it with her and theyd say I dont understand why youre putting yourself through this. Id be like Well I love her and Im going to accept her for who she is.
Monique began trying to manipulate LaTesha telling her who she could and couldnt hang out with. She bought LaTesha a cell phone and then took it back when she thought LaTesha was texting other girls. When they fought Monique would hurl insults at LaTesha saying I hope you die of AIDS and calling her a slut. After the last time the two broke up LaTesha said She just wouldnt let it go. She tried to get back with me. I was still in love with her Monique but I didnt want to be with her anymore.
At the time LaTesha had started dating another girl. Monique didnt like this tracked the pair down at Safe Space and came in swinging at the new girlfriend. A final confrontation occurred in front of staff counselors and peers at Safe Space. LaTesha had begun volunteering as a peer educator there after she and Monique broke up for the last time. I could have gotten banned from Safe Space LaTesha said of the fight.
We werent even together and she was quoteunquote in love with me. I was just like No. Youre not going to hit her. You got a problem its between me and you. And she swung at me. She got in my face and said What are you gonna do And she hit me and then she did it again.
The Safe Space staff managed to separate the two and LaTesha remained a peer counselor with the group.
Lesbian women can have a very hard time finding shelter. And sometimes an abuser will call a shelter claiming to be a victim. What may happen said Valentine at NetworkLa Red is that both a survivor and an abuser can access services so it might not be the safest harbor for a lesbian survivor.
Newman at the Violence Recovery Program said that proper screening techniques can help enhance shelters safety. We screen both parties she said. And we wont work with batterers. Well refer them to a batterers intervention program. But Ive definitely seen it. People will see themselves as victims when theyre not.
Its tough enough to get into a domestic violence shelter if youre straight no matter your gender. Kristen Clonan is a spokesperson for Safe Horizon which claims to be New York Citys largest provider of domestic violence residence with nine shelters and around beds throughout the city. Clonan said that in nearly women children and men sought out shelter at Safe Horizon and Safe Horizons three hotlines field calls annually.
Valentine of The NetworkLa Red said theres a lot of homophobia in shelters among shelter residents. The staff might have a nondiscrimination policy but its not enforced and that definitely affects a lot of survivors.
Transgender people have an especially hard time according to Newman. They might not find a shelter because often neither mens nor womens shelters take transgendered people. If they find a place in a homeless shelter they might be housed with the men which could be dangerous or with women which can agitate shelter residents. Curious people may ask intrusive questions or they might not be seen as real women or real men which Newman said is tremendously demeaning.
A month after breaking up with Jos Chris tried to commit suicide. He failed and shortly after began a course of therapy that he says helped him come to terms not only with this damaging relationship but also with his tumultuous family life. After a rough few years during which he suffered from depression and severely decreased libido he has just begun to make his way into the dating scene again. He has a steady job working in childrens afterschool education.
Sam graduated from college and has begun a masters degree program. He and his friends work to actively ignore and cut David out of their lives despite Davids repeated attempts to be in touch and get back together. And Sam says he has begun to date again as his mental health has slowly improved with the help of his psychiatrist and his counselor.
Soon after the last violent encounter with Monique LaTesha met the girlfriend she is currently seeing and says that she has definitely learned from her experience with Monique.
The girlfriend I have now shes so much different than before. You know if we argue we just wont talk to each other. If we playfight and we know its about to get serious well stop.
LaTesha is still a volunteer peer educator with Safe Space. Every week she works to educate the Queens community about the LGBT population and spread the message of safe sex and healthy relationships.
In May President Obama reauthorized the Violence Against Women Act. While the law still focuses on women in heterosexual relationships it has a new section that includes coverage of samesex partnersa big sign that attitudes are changing. Rogers and Newman both agree that circumstances are improving for gays seeking shelter and help.
Twenty years ago there was nothing Rogers said. Now there are significantly more resources and a much higher likelihood of a positive response from mainstream providers and first responders.
As individuals and society come to recognize samesex partner violence as an existing problem there is hope.
You can see this dynamic at work in a newish miraculous terrifying innovation called dry shampoo.
The stuff is the best friend of the lazyyetvain. When sprayed onto hair it soaks up oil giving the impression of freshly washed and styled coif in seconds. Since I discovered dry shampoo a few years ago I have regularly slept in for an extra minutes while the rest of the world climbs groggily into their showers like a bunch of chumps. Well everyone except Jim Hamblin. Then I would get to skip the blowdrying and heatstyling in which chumps of the female persuasion often engageanother or golden snooze minutes. With just one product I was able to add another reality TV show to my rotation read more books for work.
Recent investigations provide her opponents with plenty of material for continued attacks.
That is its good news for Clinton up to a point. Investigations into the email server and Benghazi attacks have loomed over the Democratic Partys presumptive presidential nominee like a dark cloud. Clinton undoubtedly hopes to put these scandals behind her with the Democratic National Convention less than a month away. Yet both investigations have yielded results that Donald Trump and other opponents can seize on to reinforce the perception of many voters that Clinton is a corrupt politician who cant be trustedeffectively guaranteeing that the criticisms will persist regardless of how hard the Clinton campaign works to distance itself from controversy.
The generation cheered for its startup mentality is actually starting companies at the lowest rate in years. Why
Millennials are on track to be the least entrepreneurial generation in recent history John Lettieri the cofounder of the Economic Innovation Group testified last week before the U.S. Senate. The share of people under who own a business has fallen by percent since the s and is now at a quartercentury low according to a Wall Street Journal analysis of Federal Reserve data.
It happened graduallyand until the U.S. figures out how to treat the problem it will only get worse.
Its four years from now. The campaign is under way to succeed the president who is retiring after a single wretched term. Voters are angrier than everat politicians at compromisers at the establishment. Congress and the White House seem incapable of working together on anything even when their interests align. With lawmaking at a standstill the presidents use of executive orders and regulatory discretion has reached a level that Congress views as dictatorialnot that Congress can do anything about it except file lawsuits that the divided Supreme Court its three vacancies unfilled has been unable to resolve.
As the Republican National Convention approaches and a faction of GOP delegates continues to ponder the possibility of denying Donald Trump the nomination if it can manage the longshot maneuvers that would be required for that outcome political observers are confronted with a test of their theories of government.
Are you a democrat who believes that regardless of Donald Trumps fitness for office the nomination is rightfully his because he won the most primary votes and delegates
Are you a republican who believes that delegates arent mere vestiges of an antiquated system that theyre around for a reason and that they have a moral obligation to vote their conscience at least when it is in radical conflict with voter preferences
Fears of civilizationwide idleness are based too much on the downsides of being unemployed in a society premised on the concept of employment.
The longawaited Chilcot report found Britain joined the U.S.led war against Saddam Hussein before peaceful options for disarmament had been exhausted.
Britains longawaited Chilcot report found former Prime Minister Tony Blair joined the U.S.led invasion before peaceful options to disarm Saddam Hussain had been exhausted.
The report says there was no imminent threat from Iraq before the war started and its legal justifications were far from satisfactory.
Were liveblogging the major findings and you can read how it all unfolded below. All updates are in Eastern Standard Time GMT .
The footage appears to show two Baton Rouge officers wrestling yearold Alton Sterling to the ground then sticking a gun in his chest and shooting him dead.
A video that appears to show two white police officers shooting dead a black man outside a convenience store in Baton Rouge Louisiana prompted protests Tuesday night and caused an outpouring of anger over social media.
The video appears to show yearold Alton Sterling standing with his back to a parked car and two officers with the Baton Rouge Police Department yelling for him to get on the ground. A loud pop can be heard and an officer tackles Sterling.
The Islamic State is no mere collection of psychopaths. It is a religious group with carefully considered beliefs among them that it is a key agent of the coming apocalypse. Heres what that means for its strategyand for how to stop it.
Where did it come from and what are its intentions The simplicity of these questions can be deceiving and few Western leaders seem to know the answers. In December The New York Times published confidential comments by Major General Michael K. Nagata the Special Operations commander for the United States in the Middle East admitting that he had hardly begun figuring out the Islamic States appeal. We have not defeated the idea he said. We do not even understand the idea. In the past year President Obama has referred to the Islamic State variously as not Islamic and as alQaedas jayvee team statements that reflected confusion about the group and may have contributed to significant strategic errors.
As recently as the s possessing only middling intelligence was not likely to severely limit your lifes trajectory. IQ wasnt a big factor in whom you married where you lived or what others thought of you. The qualifications for a good job whether on an assembly line or behind a desk mostly revolved around integrity work ethic and a knack for getting alongbosses didnt routinely expect college degrees much less ask to see SAT scores. As one account of the era put it hiring decisions were based on a candidate having a critical skill or two and on soft factors such as eagerness appearance family background and physical characteristics.
four women will experience domestic violence in their lifetime This means that
opened its first shelter for survivors of domestic violence in the organizationhas remained on the frontlines of working to end domestic violence. Each year weenable more than women families and children to transform their lives 
the elimination of violence once and for all. Even after the coverage subsides
Relationships are the domain of the intimate the private. When relationships are abusive this privacy is abused. Domestic violence victims have high needs for privacy as they are already the target of an abuser and often need to keep data from them. This abuse can also involve privacy violations such as surveillance monitoring or other stalking. For a domestic violence victim the need for privacy is a need for physical safety.
Many privacy problems such as identity theft are harms experienced by the public from general criminal behavior. But domestic violence victims are already being specifically singled out by a particular aggressor. This aggressor is able to take advantage of the general lack of protection for personal information in our society. Furthermore this aggressor is familiar with many of the intimate details of the victims life. An abuser can violate privacy by sharing these details or by using them to gain more information on a victim.
Finally domestic violence victims often have much of their personal information including their relationship history in government records. Turning to government aid agencies litigating custody divorces and protection orders creates a trail of their private lives in government records. The legal and actual protection afforded to these records will vary throughout the country. Their accuracy may also vary and may impact how domestic violence survivors are able to reconstruct and continue their lives.
For more general information see EPICs gender and privacy page. For some basic ways to protect yourself see EPICs guide to online privacy tools
Telephone records are susceptible to pretexting. This is when someone impersonates the owner of a telephone and gets the telephone company to release records to them. By using these techniques or hiring someone who does an abuser is able to gain the phone records of a victim.
Victims of domestic violence often need to protect their personal contact data from their abusers. However the personal data industry in the United States makes this difficult. For a general overview on personal data see EPICs page on personal data and privacy protection. EPICs page on Choicepoint a commercial data broker also provides more information on the personal data industry.
At least one state has found that information brokers can under certain circumstances be liable when people use their services for harm. Amy Boyer was killed outside her work by her stalker Liam Youens. He acquired information on her from an internet based information service Docusearch. The New Hampshire Supreme Court held Docusearch could be held liable. For more information on the case see EPICs page on Amy Boyer.
Open government laws make government records available to the public for important oversight and transparency purposes. However government records also include much personal information on individuals. Thus these open government laws must contain exemptions to protect the privacy of individuals who are subjects of government records.
States have varying levels of protection for personal information. For a statebystate guide to open government laws see The Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press Open Government Guide.
Domestic violence victims also often depend on government transfer payments or other assistance. Some face homelessness living in shelters. EPICs poverty and privacy page addresses the privacy issues affecting these populations. EPIC has also filed comments on the Department of Housing and Urban Developments Homeless Management Information System.
A recurring topic in domestic violence victims interaction with government is the dual arrest of victims. This is when victims that complain to the police are arrested along with their abusers. These arrest records can make the retention of custody of children as well as financial empowerment difficult. Thus victims may need to turn to expungement in order to clear their records. For more information see EPICs page on expungement.
Confidentiality is a tricky subject for many domestic violence service providers. States have different laws over when a nonlawyer domestic violence advocate is covered by confidentiality or privilege requirements. Furthermore many service providers combine social workers therapists lawyers and nonlicensed advocates under a single roof therefore complicating the determination of what information is privileged.
Lastly electronic communications can also complicate the privileged status of communications. For more information see EPICs privilege page.
Electronic Privacy Information Center Connecticut Ave. NW Washington DC More info
threats control of physical activity unfounded accusations of infidelity
violence begins it will usually continue and get worse over time. No matter how often
and between people who arent living together. It can be abuse by a man against a woman or by a woman against a man. It can occur in gay or lesbian relationships.
Each year the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Verizon sponsor a video challenge for Illinois high schoolers to create videos to promote healthy dating relationships. Students at Barrington High School won second and third place for the videos they submitted and received iPad minis Kindles and sweatshirts from the Chicago Bears.
In December of we were lucky enough to have Chicago Bears Safety Ryan Mundy visit with the families at A Safe Place. Ryan brought a van full of toys for our holiday store as well as a gift basket for each family and flags so that each child at A Safe Place could show their support for the Bears.
The Huffington Post Chicago recently featured A Safe Place in an article about early intervention with both abusers and young victims of domestic violence.The article highlighted our mentoring program young men in the community are matched with a positive role model who can help teach them respectful behavior and healthy relationship expectations.
In light of recent incidents coming to light the No More Campaign has taken a stand against domestic violence and sexual assault. The No More logo aspires to help break social stigma normalize the conversations around domestic violence and sexual assault and increase resources to address these issues.
Lastly an article that might be slightly older but is something we are nonetheless proud of. Our D program at the Lake County Courthouse advocates for domestic violence victims who are in court to take legal action against their abusers usually in the form of an emergency order of protection. The D program won a statewide award presented by the Illinois Attorney Generals Violent Crime Assistance Program.
The Louisiana Coalition Against Domestic Violence is the federally designated statewide coalition of shelters nonresidential programs and individuals working to end domestic violence in Louisiana. Our programs serve people from everywhere in Louisiana and who come from all backgrounds. We oppose violence as a means of control over others and support equality in relationships.
LCADV is seeking a Systems Advocate responsible for coordinating LCADVs advocacy to improve systems that respond to victims of domestic violence and their children with a primary focus on health and education systems. Work includes participation on statewide committees task READ MORE
Louisianas Domestic Violence Disaster Fund Louisiana is no stranger to natural disaster. Each year the Gulf Coast faces threats of damaging hurricanes flooding and tornadoes.Families living in shelter are among the most vulnerable in a natural disaster. Louisianas domestic violence READ MORE
A special domestic violence license plate is now available for all Louisiana residents Royalty fees on these special license plates will support LCADVs work to end domestic violence through public policy education and social change. To order your domestic violence READ MORE
Jayalakshmis story of domestic violence is that of lakhs of other Indian women. That is why it needs to be told.
Minutes after I had put up a status message on Facebook saying that I was planning to pen firsthand accounts of domestic violence survivors I was flooded with messages.
Among those who responded was my friend Nargis Yousuf from Bangalore. Er was she a victim
No. But she had an account of someone. Would you need the person to narrate it herself As in meet her she asked. I thought otherwise. But she wont be able to speak to you here on Facebook. Nargis added. So was this person seeking anonymity No it is just that she cant be on a comp. she stated. The woman in question was illiterate. She was Nargis domestic help. My friend felt her maid had a story in her one that needed to be told to the world.
There are stories of rags to riches. Then there are others where misfortune drives people to abject penury. When children are born into such families they need to start eking out a living the same way all as unfortunate as them do at the bottom of the food chain. And if the child is a girl starting off as a domestic help is one of the ways out.
There are stories of rags to riches. Then there are others where misfortune drives people to abject penury. 
So it had been for Jayalakshmi . Her father once upon a time owned a number of theatres in Andhra Pradesh. He was semiliterate and he paid a price for that quite dearly. He was duped by friends and partners and lost all he had except his family. Hounded by debtors and driven by hunger the man his wife and three daughters fled to neighbouring Karnataka.
There was little however that her father could do to pull the family out of the woods. He could not get over the sense of betrayal or loss of fortune. Before the family could realise he had gone mad. The woman and her three little daughters were now left to fend for themselves. The mother started out as a domestic help in Bangalore. Jayalakshmi was barely eight at the time.
In another eight years she would be married off and would tread her mothers path by washing utensils and sweeping the houses of the better off. Her problems were only beginning.
Only a few months had passed when the man of her life started accusing her of infidelity. He probably had a guilt complex chewing him from the inside he was himself wont to be sleeping around. The accusations didnt come alone they were accompanied by violence. Brutal.
Sixteen years and three sons later nothing much has changed for Jayalakshmi on the domestic front. No lets be straight on this the man hasnt changed. He remains sadistic drinks himself violent and steals from her meagre earnings. He is a satyr and has no end to sexual urges. He needs to watch porn on their television even while the children are asleep in the shack they share in the Shampur area. Protests are met with needless to say brutally.
Jayalakshmi doesnt lose focus. She works in six homes from six in the morning till seven in the evening and her life revolves around her three sons. The eldest is the little one ten. She manages five grand a month of which goes towards house rent. She still manages to send the children to school and feed them as well. The husband lives off her and gambles away.
She hasnt lost her sense of selfrespect either. Men lust after her incessantly asking her for sexual favours. Jayalakshmi wards them off with dignity.
The women of the households where she works identify with her to varying extents. They donate the rice she desperately needs times of inflation or otherwise. When she got her bonus for the month of Ramzan the first thing Jayalakshmi did was run to the school to pay the fees. Every time that she gets a hundred rupee note Nargis can virtually see her calculating what amount will need to go where. The beast meanwhile continues to live off her stealing the money she sets aside for a rainy day in garbage bins. She has reasons to fear the man he and a few friends of his had once allegedly murdered a woman in the area.
The first thing one loses in times of adversity probably is humour Jayalakshmi hasnt.
Jayalakshmis mother died of cancer a few years back. Both the younger sisters are married and the husbands thankfully provide for them. Her fathers condition grew worse over the years and then one day he simply walked out of the house never to return. That was five years ago.
The first thing one loses in times of adversity probably is humour Jayalakshmi hasnt. She is incisively witty and that possibly is one of the reasons why she gets along with Nargis.
There is probably nothing outstanding about Jayalakshmi. Her story could also be that of lakhs of such women out there. Thats why this story needs to be told.
Dear subir thanks for writing this we need many such stories of grti and determination than depressive ones which victimize women its more about how they survive to be an optimistic example of many others who are on the brink in their life and reading such a story will make them optimistic and determined . let some more come from your pen
The title of your blog is apt. My domestic help and some of those who workaround my house have also encountered similar fate. My domestic help came one day with a scarf around her head claiming that a bee had bitten he. The bee turned out to be her husband.Not only that i have a very close friend who is a victim and has stayed in the relation for the sake of her kids.In my view she sending a wrong messageto her kids. By staying in the relation she is telling them that one should accept anything in a relation even if it means losing your dignity.
It is not the question of dignity alone. Leaving an abusive husband may or may not bring respite. The abusers behaviour can be prdicted and dealt with. But the lechers who find a single woman an easy target are more difficult to deal with. Only women with a strong will or family support can opt out of an abusive marriage. My domestic help has an abusive husband but now her grown up son stands up for her.
I would like to connect with you regarding a show on a leading channel that i cant reveal here.
Would greatly appreciate if you could provide me with an ID where I could contact you. 
Vandana says I layered my red plaid shirt over a black tee and paired it with a black salwar to create a Fusion look. Its time to RethinkDesi 
Womens Web is THE place for the Indian woman who wants to stay engaged with the world who believes that she has a place in the world and ideas to offer. We focus on womens selfdevelopment and pursuit of happiness by offering information on career development entrepreneurship managing work and family successful women womens health social issues and personal finances. Our goal is to help women learn and grow
four women will experience domestic violence in their lifetime This means that
opened its first shelter for survivors of domestic violence in the organizationhas remained on the frontlines of working to end domestic violence. Each year weenable more than women families and children to transform their lives 
the elimination of violence once and for all. Even after the coverage subsides
A new report says women are crossing provincial borders to escape domestic violence and many are being turned away from shelters that are full or overcrowded
Wayne Anthony Hawess daughter says he went on a bloody rampage and killed five people including her grandmother and cousin
The province passed a law Tuesday that will among other things allow those fleeing domestic violence to break a lease without giving days notice
A report by Afghanistans Independent Human Rights Commission found girls as young as had been forced to take the scientifically invalid tests
The couples other son was at a basketball game during the fatal events and his father appears to have left something for him in the car outside the fireravaged home
The shows staff was reportedly split on whether to invite the troubled star on the show and use him to spotlight domestic abuse issues
The machinery of government isnt always best left to lawyers and timeserving partisan volunteers
If theres anything to be learned from the Ray Rice and Greg Hardy incidents its that there still are blurry lines when it comes to women who are violent against men
June Steenkamp went to Reevas old high school and read directly from a speech that touched on domestic abuse family relationships and other issues
In the event of a Canada Post labour dispute mail service will be temporarily disrupted.
If Canada Post delivers your newspaper you will not receive your newspaper for the duration of the dispute. We encourage you to visit our website daily or register for the ePaper. We will make every effort to hold copies in the meantime and mail them out after the labour dispute ends. Free community distribution plans will be communicated locally In areas where we offer distribution by delivery contractors or through retail locations service will remain unchanged.
National Post a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
To use this website cookies must be enabled in your browser. To enable cookies follow the instructions for your browser below.
Jayalakshmis story of domestic violence is that of lakhs of other Indian women. That is why it needs to be told.
Minutes after I had put up a status message on Facebook saying that I was planning to pen firsthand accounts of domestic violence survivors I was flooded with messages.
Among those who responded was my friend Nargis Yousuf from Bangalore. Er was she a victim
No. But she had an account of someone. Would you need the person to narrate it herself As in meet her she asked. I thought otherwise. But she wont be able to speak to you here on Facebook. Nargis added. So was this person seeking anonymity No it is just that she cant be on a comp. she stated. The woman in question was illiterate. She was Nargis domestic help. My friend felt her maid had a story in her one that needed to be told to the world.
There are stories of rags to riches. Then there are others where misfortune drives people to abject penury. When children are born into such families they need to start eking out a living the same way all as unfortunate as them do at the bottom of the food chain. And if the child is a girl starting off as a domestic help is one of the ways out.
There are stories of rags to riches. Then there are others where misfortune drives people to abject penury. 
So it had been for Jayalakshmi . Her father once upon a time owned a number of theatres in Andhra Pradesh. He was semiliterate and he paid a price for that quite dearly. He was duped by friends and partners and lost all he had except his family. Hounded by debtors and driven by hunger the man his wife and three daughters fled to neighbouring Karnataka.
There was little however that her father could do to pull the family out of the woods. He could not get over the sense of betrayal or loss of fortune. Before the family could realise he had gone mad. The woman and her three little daughters were now left to fend for themselves. The mother started out as a domestic help in Bangalore. Jayalakshmi was barely eight at the time.
In another eight years she would be married off and would tread her mothers path by washing utensils and sweeping the houses of the better off. Her problems were only beginning.
Only a few months had passed when the man of her life started accusing her of infidelity. He probably had a guilt complex chewing him from the inside he was himself wont to be sleeping around. The accusations didnt come alone they were accompanied by violence. Brutal.
Sixteen years and three sons later nothing much has changed for Jayalakshmi on the domestic front. No lets be straight on this the man hasnt changed. He remains sadistic drinks himself violent and steals from her meagre earnings. He is a satyr and has no end to sexual urges. He needs to watch porn on their television even while the children are asleep in the shack they share in the Shampur area. Protests are met with needless to say brutally.
Jayalakshmi doesnt lose focus. She works in six homes from six in the morning till seven in the evening and her life revolves around her three sons. The eldest is the little one ten. She manages five grand a month of which goes towards house rent. She still manages to send the children to school and feed them as well. The husband lives off her and gambles away.
She hasnt lost her sense of selfrespect either. Men lust after her incessantly asking her for sexual favours. Jayalakshmi wards them off with dignity.
The women of the households where she works identify with her to varying extents. They donate the rice she desperately needs times of inflation or otherwise. When she got her bonus for the month of Ramzan the first thing Jayalakshmi did was run to the school to pay the fees. Every time that she gets a hundred rupee note Nargis can virtually see her calculating what amount will need to go where. The beast meanwhile continues to live off her stealing the money she sets aside for a rainy day in garbage bins. She has reasons to fear the man he and a few friends of his had once allegedly murdered a woman in the area.
The first thing one loses in times of adversity probably is humour Jayalakshmi hasnt.
Jayalakshmis mother died of cancer a few years back. Both the younger sisters are married and the husbands thankfully provide for them. Her fathers condition grew worse over the years and then one day he simply walked out of the house never to return. That was five years ago.
The first thing one loses in times of adversity probably is humour Jayalakshmi hasnt. She is incisively witty and that possibly is one of the reasons why she gets along with Nargis.
There is probably nothing outstanding about Jayalakshmi. Her story could also be that of lakhs of such women out there. Thats why this story needs to be told.
Dear subir thanks for writing this we need many such stories of grti and determination than depressive ones which victimize women its more about how they survive to be an optimistic example of many others who are on the brink in their life and reading such a story will make them optimistic and determined . let some more come from your pen
The title of your blog is apt. My domestic help and some of those who workaround my house have also encountered similar fate. My domestic help came one day with a scarf around her head claiming that a bee had bitten he. The bee turned out to be her husband.Not only that i have a very close friend who is a victim and has stayed in the relation for the sake of her kids.In my view she sending a wrong messageto her kids. By staying in the relation she is telling them that one should accept anything in a relation even if it means losing your dignity.
It is not the question of dignity alone. Leaving an abusive husband may or may not bring respite. The abusers behaviour can be prdicted and dealt with. But the lechers who find a single woman an easy target are more difficult to deal with. Only women with a strong will or family support can opt out of an abusive marriage. My domestic help has an abusive husband but now her grown up son stands up for her.
I would like to connect with you regarding a show on a leading channel that i cant reveal here.
Would greatly appreciate if you could provide me with an ID where I could contact you. 
Vandana says I layered my red plaid shirt over a black tee and paired it with a black salwar to create a Fusion look. Its time to RethinkDesi 
Womens Web is THE place for the Indian woman who wants to stay engaged with the world who believes that she has a place in the world and ideas to offer. We focus on womens selfdevelopment and pursuit of happiness by offering information on career development entrepreneurship managing work and family successful women womens health social issues and personal finances. Our goal is to help women learn and grow
URCOT for the invitation to speak at todays conference. The work of the Clearinghouse across critical areas of policy has been extraordinary and we hope
the land on which we gather and pay my respects to their elders past and
into domestic and family violence has been comprehensive and valuable. We look forward with great interest and anticipation to seeing some positive outcomes
violence on women especially in the workforce. It was also one of several strengthen protection against the discrimination women endure as a result of
organisations on this issue. Much of this vital work has been developed in
Governmentinitiated consolidation project as it is known is to clarify and enhance protections where appropriate. The project presents a timely law reform opportunity to evaluate the rationale and evidence to substantiate such an enhanced protection by way of a possible and in our view appropriate new
discrimination legislation released in September this year the Government
prevalence data about domestic violence. An estimated . million women in Australia over the age of have experienced domestic or family violence
work of the Clearinghouseis that almost twothirds of women affected by employment. This equates to around women in the workplace who are
individuals who do not report domestic or family violence who are also in paid
the leading contributor to death disability and illness in women aged to years. It is responsible for more of the disease burden in women than many
there are also the costs to the Australian economy and to Australian businesses. Many of you will be aware that violence against women and children will cost the Australian economy . billion by unless effective action is taken
challenges in the workplace. One such challenge is discrimination which when
discrimination but also in other areas of life such as in the provision of
they are in a violent situation or they may be evicted from housing because of
on domestic violence is that existing grounds within current discrimination legislation provide victims and survivors with some protection. Often however
domestic or family violence there may be times where victims and survivors experience discrimination that is unrelated to a disability. Consider for example a victim or survivor who is denied access to flexible work arrangements
responsibilities as in the case of disability this ground may fail to fully accommodate the range or forms of discrimination victims and survivors of
laws project the Australian Human Rights Commission convened a roundtable in November this year to discuss the possible inclusion of domestic and family
together representative experts working in the area from the health sector researchers womens organisations and the ALRC. What the roundtable did was identify and substantiate some cogent reasons for proposing through the consolidation project a separate ground of discrimination related to domestic
framework in Australia provides victims and survivors of domestic and family
the workplace in their endeavours to find safe and suitable housing and in all other areas of their lives. Rather than supporting victims and survivors discrimination and in some circumstances may even leave them with little
to address domestic and family violence through mechanisms other than workplace during the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women where government employers and business came out strongly in favour of addressing the prevalence of domestic violence through prevention and education strategies workplace mechanisms and protection and redress for victims and survivors.
business awareness about the impact of domestic and family violence. This may in turn facilitate the adoption of policies and procedures to support victims and survivors of domestic violence and aid in establishing workplace and
ground of discrimination is that it would complement emerging strategies for addressing the workplace implications of domestic and family violence e.g. leave provisions in enterprise bargaining agreements especially in situations
country. If we are to succeed in addressing this crisis we need to tackle it from every angle and involve individuals and institutions from all sectors of society in offering victims and survivors appropriate mechanisms of prevention and redress. A new ground of discrimination potentially provides another rung on the ladder of protection that will further enable us to address domestic and
situation to their employers we know from anecdotal evidence that many do not
decline in work performance. A failure to name the experience for fear of consequence may mean that the victim internalises the conduct they are forced normalised. Without naming the experience and having the protective framework inadvertently also become victims of discrimination without being able to take any effective steps for the prevention of both the violence and the subsequent
he can treat it effectively discrimination related to domestic and family violence must be identified and acknowledged as a wrong in need of legal and
culture of silence develops where victims remain voiceless and powerless. This undermines individual and community wellbeing and perpetuates further
violation. Today however it is widely recognised as a critical concern for women in all parts of the world. It is prohibited in a wide variety of legal instruments and is frequently named and condemned by international
areas they drew attention to the fact that violence against women was not the result of random individual acts of misconduct but was deeply rooted in the structural relationships of inequality between women and men. In calling for action and redress for these violations . women exposed the role of violence against women as a form of discrimination and a mechanism to perpetuate it. This process led to the identification of many different forms and manifestations of violence against women . drawing them out of the private
and authoritatively proclaim and transform an unacknowledged harmful experience into an experience or wrong that is recognized at law as harmful and requiring
acknowledgment of domestic and family violencerelated discrimination and offer employers without fear of repercussion. Importantly the existence of such a protection will also serve to reduce the detrimental impact of violence on a womens access to paid work . and as a consequence on her income The mental and physical consequences of abuse undoubtedly affect the performance performance is potentially exacerbated when they face discriminatory treatment
discrimination related to domestic and family violence unlawful in the workplace and in the provision of services or housing will be a critical and positive contributor to achieving workplace equality and wellbeing and accordingly
Violence against Women and their Children The Cost of Violence Against Women
UN SecretaryGeneral InDepth Study on All Forms of Violence against Women UN Doc
Johnny Manziels father Paul told ESPN tonight that the former Browns quarterback is a druggie who needs help and that he hoped his son would go to jail.
Former Seahawks quarterback Tarvaris Jackson was arrested earlier today after authorities said he pointed a loaded gun at a woman he was arguing with and told her Ill kill you bitch. The arrest happened shortly after a.m. this morning in Floridas Osceola County Jackson was booked into local jail on one count
Kings point guard Darren Collison was arrested yesterday afternoon in Granite Bay a Sacramento suburb after a woman called the police at a.m. Monday morning to report that she was being assaulted.
Major League Baseball announced today that Braves outfielder Hector Olivera has been suspended without pay through August for violating the Joint Domestic Violence Sexual Assault and Child Abuse Policy. The suspension is retroactive to April meaning Olivera is suspended for games in total. 
What did Baylor know and when did it know it Thats become the question for Baylor leaders especially coach Art Briles and president Kenneth Starr yes that Ken Starr as report after report have emerged detailing accusations of violence and sexual assault involving their football players. Its an important
MLB commissioner Rob Manfred just announced that Rockies shortstop Jose Reyes will be suspended through May . Reyes was arrested for allegedly grabbing his wife by the throat and shoving her into a sliding glass door this past Halloween. He was placed on leave by the Rockies on February and was kept there while
Over the weekend Florida State running back Delmarick Mario Pender was arrested on charges of domestic battery by strangulation and resisting arrest without violence after allegedly hitting and choking the mother of his child and was promptly dismissed by the team. Below you can find the probable cause affidavit
In this new era of the NFL deciding it cares about domestic violence its become a postdraft tradition to identify the selectee who committed the most despicable crime in college and even criticize his team for drafting him. This years stigma belongs to new Chiefs wide receiver Tyreek Hill.
Aroldis Chapman returns to the Yankees today after serving his game domestic violence suspension but the fireballing reliever has yet to take much responsibility for the incident that landed him on MLBs banned list.
Florida State has dismissed Mario Pender after the senior running back was arrested Saturday on charges he committed domestic violence by strangulation.
The Kansas City Chiefs drafted Tyreek Hill in the fifth round of the NFL draft today. Hill last appeared in these pages after being charged with and eventually pleading guilty to beating and choking his pregnant girlfrienda crime that got him dismissed from Oklahoma State.
Earlier this month former Baylor Bears defensive end Shawn Oakman was charged with sexual assault after another Baylor student said he assaulted her at his Waco duplex. Today Alex Dunlap at Orangebloods published a Waco police report that shows Oakman was the subject of an assault report back in when an
The Associated Press is reporting that Maui prosecutors will dismiss a domestic abuse charge against Rockies shortstop Jose Reyes. Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Kerry Glen told the AP that the reason is Reyes wife isnt cooperating.
Fighting Illini junior guard Kendrick Nunn was charged today with one count of domestic battery after authorities in Champaign County say he struck a woman in the head the NewsGazette is reporting. Nunns arrest is the fourth one of an Illini basketball player since August and the second charged with domestic
MLB has placed Rockies shortstop Jose Reyes on paid leave pending the completion of his criminal proceedings. Reyes who was charged with assaulting his wife this winter is set to go to trial on April . MLB
According to a report from TMZ Sports which was later corroborated by the Dallas Morning News former Cowboys running back Joseph Randle was arrested this morning in Sedgwick County Kansas and charged with three counts of battery one count of criminal damage to property and one count of drug possession.
As part of her request for a protective order against Johnny Manziel Colleen Crowley outlined in an affidavit what she said happened the night Manziel is accused of beating her up. In the document Crowley describes a horrific night in which Manziel keeps her from leaving his hotel room later throws her back in a
Hold down CTRL key to select several options at once. To remove an option click on the X in buttons right side.
The Office of the Attorney General is unable to guarantee the accuracy of this translation and is therefore not liable for any inaccurate information resulting from the translation application tool.
Please consult with a translator for accuracy if you are relying on the translation or are using this site for official business.
Fifteen thousand domestic violence calls are made every year but most victims never reach out.
POLICE SAY THEY GET THOUSAND DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CALLS EVERY YEAR. WHATS EVEN WORSE MOST VICTIMS NEVER REACH OUT FOR HELP. AND THEY MIGHT NOT KNOW. THERES AN ENTIRE RESOURCE CENTER DEDICATED TO HELPING THEM. ACTION NEWS REPORTER NANCY LAFLIN EXPLAINS ITS ALL FREE. SCENES LIKE THIS ARE TERRIFYING. WITNESSES AND INVESTIGATORS SAY ALL THIS STARTED AS A FIGHT BETWEEN A BOYFRIEND AND GIRLFRIEND. IT ENDED VIOLENTLY WITH THE SUSPECT SLAMMING INTO HIS GIRLFRIENDS CAR THEN INTO A DEPUTIES. THAT SUSPECT SHOT AND KILLED. POLICE SAY DOMESTIC VIOLENCE IS AN ALL TOO COMMON PROBLEM IN NEW MEXICO. Officers in albuquerque respond to domestic violence call ..every day. All day. And all night. AN ESTIMATED THOUSAND CALLS A YEAR. AND THATS JUST IN ALBUQUERQUE. I want to help people that are in domestic violence situations to understand and know that there is a safe haven that they can come to. they dont have to stay in an abusive relationship. IT IS CALLED THE DV RESOURCE CENTER. A NOT FOR PROFIT ORGANIZATION THAT WORKS HAND IN HAND WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT IN BERNALILLO COUNTY PROVIDING EVERYTHING FROM LEGAL COUNSELING JOB SUPPORT EDUCATION ABOUT ABUSE AND THERAPY FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY INCLUDING CHILDREN. our mission is to empower the victims and engage the community so that we can end the cycle of domestic violence. POLICE SAY VICTIMS ADVOCATES EVEN GO ON DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CALLS WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT LETTING THOSE FAMILIES KNOW THERE IS HELP. it can return that victim to an independent happy life where theyre safe and their kids are safe. A FREE SERVICE. TO HELP STOP A HORRIBLE CYCLE. TO HELP FAMILIES HEAL. NANCY LAFLIN KOAT
Two police officers pin down Alton Sterling a yearold black man then shoot him as he lies on the ground.
To complete your registration on this site please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
For a more personalized experience please supply the following optional information.
A third study of older and more experienced officers found a rate of more common among police families than American families in general. A police department that has domestic violence offenders among its ranks by their colleagues and seek to protect them by covering it up they expose 
officer are particularly vulnerable because the officer who is abusing 
be handled by officers who are colleagues andor friends of their abuser. Victims of police family violence typically fear that the responding officers will side with their abuser and fail to properly investigate or document 
typically handle cases of police family violence informally often without an official report investigation or even check of the victims safety. This informal method is often in direct contradiction to legislative to domestic violence crimes. Moreover a nationwide survey of police departments documented that almost half had no specific policy 
no evidence that police departments across the country are doing anything 
are unlikely to be fired arrested or referred for prosecution raising concern that those who are tasked with enforcing the law cannot effectively 
conducted by the Office of the Inspector General concluded that the discipline imposed on officers found guilty of domestic violence was exceedingly 
cases in which an allegation of domestic violence was sustained against 
neither barred from moving to desired positions nor transferred out of 
leaked shocking LAPD personnel files to the press. These files documented scores of violent domestic crimes committed by LAPD officers. Mullally was so shocked by the LAPDs mishandling of this police family violence that he decided to violate the civil protective order in the case he was working on and turn the files over to the media in the hopes of creating 
Foundation have been actively involved in this case which was featured in in a Minutes segment with Mike Wallace. For more information on the case or to obtain documents including the amicus brief submitted 
including police officers from owning or using a firearm if they have been convicted of a misdemeanor domestic violence offense U.S.C. 
on police officers shows that law enforcement officers have been able to circumvent the ban and retain their weapons. A survey of the nations largest police departments revealed that only six cities acted against officers because of the Domestic Violence Gun Ban and only eleven officers were affected. Part of the reason for the lack of enforcement is that police officers plead to a charge other than 
violence have their records expunged and remain on the department. 
Founded in LifeSpan is a notforprofit agency that provides comprehensive services to victims of domestic violence and their children. The Police Domestic Violence Program known as S.A.B.L.E. is a unique services for victims whose abusers are police or other law enforcement personnel. LifeSpan can be reached at online or by calling . 
A comprehensive handbook is available for victims of police domestic violence published by LifeSpan and available at their web site www.lifespan.org or by calling . Copies are also available through Volcano 
is a unique web site devoted to providing resources for victims of domestic violence whose abusers are police officers and firefighters. Content includes tactics of abuse impact upon victims and their families and friends dealing with the justice system and many other topics. The site also addresses the impact on the career of the police officer longtime advocate for victims of policeperpetrated domestic violence. The Victim Handbook described above is also available for downloading.
progressive policies to handle domestic violence perpetrated by its employees. The department has established an independent unit within the Office of Professional Responsibility to investigate these cases families of police officers and an advocate is employed by the department 
complaint desk and a supervisor is immediately notified of the problem. abusive behavior comes to the attention of the department and allegations are thoroughly investigated and referred for prosecution when appropriate. The unit deals with approximately cases of police family violence a year on a department with approximately sworn personnel. For more information contact Callie Baird at the Office of Professional Responsibility or Sgt. Judith Martin at the Domestic 
The International Association of Chiefs of Police IACP has developed a model policy for police agencies on how to handle cases of domestic a concept and issues paper on the topic. Both can be obtained by contacting 
family wellbeing. Hearing before the Select Committee on Children 
families risk factors and adaptations to violence in families. 
in Law Enforcement Personnel Attending the FOP Biennial Conference 
a Survey Conducted by the Metropolitan Police Department of Victims 
Each year the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Verizon sponsor a video challenge for Illinois high schoolers to create videos to promote healthy dating relationships. Students at Barrington High School won second and third place for the videos they submitted and received iPad minis Kindles and sweatshirts from the Chicago Bears.
In December of we were lucky enough to have Chicago Bears Safety Ryan Mundy visit with the families at A Safe Place. Ryan brought a van full of toys for our holiday store as well as a gift basket for each family and flags so that each child at A Safe Place could show their support for the Bears.
The Huffington Post Chicago recently featured A Safe Place in an article about early intervention with both abusers and young victims of domestic violence.The article highlighted our mentoring program young men in the community are matched with a positive role model who can help teach them respectful behavior and healthy relationship expectations.
In light of recent incidents coming to light the No More Campaign has taken a stand against domestic violence and sexual assault. The No More logo aspires to help break social stigma normalize the conversations around domestic violence and sexual assault and increase resources to address these issues.
Lastly an article that might be slightly older but is something we are nonetheless proud of. Our D program at the Lake County Courthouse advocates for domestic violence victims who are in court to take legal action against their abusers usually in the form of an emergency order of protection. The D program won a statewide award presented by the Illinois Attorney Generals Violent Crime Assistance Program.
Hopes were skyhigh when intrepid skydivers from the Black Country took to the air for a recordbreaking charity jump.
A charity which offers advice and help to victims of domestic violence has been forced to close down due to lack of funding.
A womans sex films secret sent her exlover into a rage that has landed him behind bars for months.
This is the man police would like to locate in connection with domestic violence offences.
A new report has rated the way Staffordshire Police treats vulnerable victims of crime as inadequate.
Council funding to a charity that helps victims of domestic violence in Wolverhampton will end next month.
A motherofthree from Wolverhampton caught shoplifting has been given a curfew and told to pay compensation to the shops she stole from.
Police have turned to hairdressers for help in their fight against domestic abuse.
Robberies car crime burglaries and gun offences in Wolverhampton have plummeted latest figures show.
Victims of sexual violence are having to wait nine months to speak to a counsellor about their ordeal.
The iconic Man on the Horse statue in Wolverhampton is getting behind a campaign supporting the end of violence against women.
Almost will be spent tackling the toxic trio of domestic abuse mental ill health and substance misuse in Walsall.
I really thought that he was going to kill me. I became terrified of the man that I loved.Kayli Hill says she is lucky to be alive after plummeting from a third floor balcony following a relentless beating from her former lover.
Serving West Midlands Police officers who left a foulmouthed and abusive voicemail on the phone of an alleged crime victim have accepted their actions amounted to misconduct a disciplinary panel has heard.
A thug beat up his exgirlfriend in front of his children and then left her for dead for two days until she came round and saw her injuries when she took a selfie.
Dozens of men and women slipped into high heels and walked a mile to raise awareness of domestic abuse.
To use this website cookies must be enabled in your browser. To enable cookies follow the instructions for your browser below.
To request an unblock please fill out the form below and we will review it as soon as possible.
Women between the ages of and are the most likely to experience abuse from a current or former partner or spouse. Getty ImagesiStockphoto
Every minute about people are physically abused by an intimate partner in the U.S. according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Although the rate of domestic violence has dropped significantly over the past decade the issue remains extremely relevant and farreaching and has been spotlighted recentlyby cases involving NFL players Ray Rice and Greg Hardy as well as pop starChris Brown. 
While these wellknown and wellcovered stories haveshed light on domestic violence andhelpedalert the public to its dangers many incidents still go unreported and unknown.
Since October is Domestic Violence Awareness Month heres a look at some sobering stats ontheissue.Domestic violence doesntjustoccur betweenromantic partners.
Domestic violence is a pattern of abusive behavior in whichsomeone uses physical sexual psychological or other types of harm against a current or former partner animmediate family member or another relative. It can also include stalking threats or other behaviors meant to manipulate or control someone else.
Between and domestic violenceaccounted for over percent of all violent crime in the U.S. Intimate partner violence meaning violence involving current or former spouses boyfriends or girlfriends is the most common type of domestic violence.
The majority of domestic abuse offenders arent the spouses of victimsthey are most likely to be current or former boyfriends or girlfriends.
Intimate partner violence is very prevalent on college campuses with estimates of dating violence ranging from to percent theDepartment of Justicereported.
Male victims are abused by nonspousefamily members at a higher ratethanfemale victims.
More than in women will be victims of intimate partnerviolencein their lifetimes while more than in menwill be according to aCDCsurvey.
Both men and women are most likely to be targeted by people they currently date or used to date. But the National Crime Victimization Survey showed that male victims were more likely to have been targeted by family members or other relatives than were females.
Female victims on the other hand were more likely than males to be victimized by their spouse or exspouse.
Women between the ages of and are the most likely to experience intimate partner violence.
Centers for Disease Control and PreventionNational Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey
Domestic violence has dropped but take a closer look.The rate of domestic violencefor persons and olderdropped by percent from to the Department of Justice said. But while that may sound promising it trailsthe percent fall in overall violence over the same time period.
One important consequence of intimate partner violence is that it can increase a victims risk of contracting an HIV infection the CDC said. Not only do victims have the chance of getting HIV from aperpetrator but research indicates that males and females who experience intimate partner violence are more likely to engage in risky behaviors like injection drug use and sex without a condom which can lead to an HIV infection.
Women in violent relationshipsalso are four times more likely to contract a sexually transmitted infectionthan those who are not according to the CDC.
Additionally sexual abuse at an early age is a risk factor for females later contracting anSTI as it can contribute to risky behaviorlater in life such as having sex with multiple andor unfamiliar partners and not using condoms.
Domestic violencemakes people more likely to suffer from depression and suicidal behaviorand often negatively impacts avictims ability to perform well at work. Without adequate financial means victims may find themselves trapped in an abusive relationship without enough money to leave. Altogether intimate partner violence causes women to lose about million days of paid work each year according to a report.
Some areas like New York City have strengthened efforts to help victims leave abusive relationships. Mayor Bill de Blasio is working to bolster city programs that provide shelter to people fleeing domestic violence. The mayors plan would provide emergency housing for up to adults and children per year instead of thecurrent people according toThe New York Times.
In June South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley signeda bill that penalizes domestic violence offenders based on the severity of the attack and other factors instead of basing punishment largelyon their number of previous offenses. It also prevents offenders from owning guns depending on their crimes TheAssociated Press reported. For the state which was determined to have the highest rate of women murdered by men in according to a Violence Policy Center study released last month the new law was a major step to better aid domestic violence victims.
Despite progress many cases ofdomestic violence stay in the dark. Only a little over half of cases are reported to authorities and only about a third of victims injured in intimate partner violencereceive medical carethe Department of Justice said.
Even if you detested stats class data can be way more compelling than you realize. On Data Mine we make the numbers in the news make sense.
The firstever World Health Organization WHO study on domestic violence reveals that intimate partner violence is the most common form of violence in womens lives much more so than assault or rape by strangers or acquaintances. The study reports on the enormous toll physical and sexual violence by husbands and partners has on the health and wellbeing of women around the world and the extent to which partner violence is still largely hidden.
This study shows that women are more at risk from violence at home than in the street and this has serious repercussions for womens health said Dr LEE Jongwook DirectorGeneral of WHO at the study release in Geneva. The study also shows how important it is to shine a spotlight on domestic violence globally and treat it as a major public health issue.
The study finds that one quarter to one half of all women who had been physically assaulted by their partners said that they had suffered physical injuries as a direct result. The abused women were also twice as likely as nonabused women to have poor health and physical and mental problems even if the violence occurred years before. This includes suicidal thoughts and attempts mental distress and physical symptoms like pain dizziness and vaginal discharge. The study was carried out in collaboration with the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine PATH and national research institutions and womens organizations in the participating countries.
The degree to which the health consequences of partner violence in the WHO study are consistent across sites both within and between countries is striking noted Dr Charlotte Watts from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine a member of the core research team for the study. Partner violence appears to have a similar impact on womens health and wellbeing regardless of where she lives the prevalence of violence in her setting or her cultural or economic background.
Domestic violence is known to affect womens sexual and reproductive health and may contribute to increased risk of sexually transmitted infections including HIV. In this study women who were in physically or sexually abusive relationships were more likely to report that their partner had multiple sexual partners and had refused to use a condom than women in non violent relationships. Women who reported physical or sexual violence by a partner were also more likely to report having had at least one induced abortion or miscarriage than those who did not report violence.
Although pregnancy is often thought of as a time when women should be protected in most study locations between and of women who had been pregnant reported being beaten during pregnancy. More than of these women had been abused by the father of the unborn child and between one quarter and one half of them had been kicked or punched in the abdomen.
For policy makers the greatest challenge is that abuse remains hidden. At least of women reporting physical violence in the study had never told anyone before being interviewed. Despite the health consequences very few women reported seeking help from formal services like health and police or from individuals in positions of authority preferring instead to reach out to friends neighbours and family members. Those who did seek formal support tended to be the most severely abused.
This is the first ever study conducted in Thailand on this issue and has made us better understand the extent of violence that women experience in our country noted Dr. Churnrurtai Kanchanachitra from Mahidol University and a member of the study team in Thailand. The findings helped us to develop the national plan for the elimination of violence against women and children.
The report recommends a range of vital interventions to change attitudes and challenge the inequities and social norms that perpetuate abuse. It further recommends integrating violence prevention programming into ongoing initiatives aimed at children youth HIVAIDS and sexual and reproductive health. Health service providers should be trained to identify women experiencing violence and to respond appropriately. Prenatal care family planning or post abortion care are potential entry points to provide care support and referral to other services. Schools need to be safe places support systems for victims must be strengthened and prevention programmes put in place. Raising awareness of the problem among the general public is critical. . Domestic violence can be prevented and governments and communities need to mobilize to fight this widespread public health problem said WHOs Dr Claudia Garcia Moreno Study Coordinator. WHO will continue to raise awareness about violence and the important role that public health can play to address its causes and consequences. Globally we need to stop the violence from happening in the first place and to provide help and support to women who are in abusive relationships.
WHOs Global Campaign for the Prevention of Violence supports governments to develop comprehensive violence prevention programmes to address domestic violence alongside other types of violence.
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News My Clippings My Comments and user settings.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below you can go to our login page.
Not long after I joined the police force in the s I discovered that three of my friends all women all police officers were being physically abused by their husbands. All three were strong and capable women. They arrested criminals. They protected the public. They handled guns.
I was shocked. I thought if violence could touch the lives of my friends it could touch the lives of any woman.
Life has changed in so many ways since the s but violence and abuse against women and girls remains with us. Fiftyseven women have been murdered in Australia this year alone most by men who were or are their partners.
The root of this violence is attitudes which devalue and exploit women and girls. Whether those attitudes are more common in developing countries than nations like our own is arguable. What is not arguable is that they still exist. And they need to change everywhere.
Now there is a royal commission into family violence in Victoria. Violence against women is widely reported and commented on. We clearly have a long way to go but our society is finally talking about violence against women and girls. As long as we treated this just as a family matter or as a personal problem or as the victims fault a solution was never going to be possible. Now we can work together to make a lasting difference.
But those billion women experiencing violence across the world need that conversation to begin where they live too. Dont think for a moment that attitudes cannot change in developing nations. They can and the change can make a substantial difference for women at risk of domestic violence.
Examples include projects by Plan International in Uganda and Zimbabwe which happen to be funded by the Australian government. Communities that often accepted or ignored violence against women as a fact of life have seen their attitudes challenged through education. While women came to understand and assert their rights police and the courts were trained to support them.
Just as in Australia the result has been a transformation in the lives of women. Violence has not yet been eliminated but it has been acknowledged. We need to go further to identify the causes and to condemn violence and abuse against women and girls. Thats our experience in Australia and it can and should be our experience around the world.
As this work in Africa shows Australia has the resources to help that conversation begin at individual community and institutional levels. But that is just a handful of communities in two countries. There are countless communities around the world rich and poor developed and developing where violence against women is ignored unacknowledged even flourishing.
We need to export our fight against violence and abuse towards women and girls even as we continue to wage it ourselves. Other countries have much to learn from the changes we have seen in our attitudes since I first joined the police force in the s and I daresay we have much to learn from their experiences.
The conversations we have together could well prove to be the key to finally ending the scourge of violence and abuse against women and girls.
Christine Nixon is a former chief commissioner of Victoria Police. She will be speaking at RMIT on Monday on ending violence against women and girls. For more information go to plan.org.au
Infected with political bacteria government corruption Australian system is topheavy with managers while those in the lower ranks are so thin Indian tribe with too many chiefs and very few braves they rarely have the time or the inclination to serve the people properly. 
Consequently this has created a culture in which every divorcedseparated dad is seen as a terrorist and is treated as such.
Accountability must go all the way to the top. Otherwise whats left of the rule of law
Candor and accountability in a democracy is very important. Hypocrisy has no place. Alan Dershowitz
If the people cannot trust their government to do the job for which it exists to protect them and to promote their common welfare all else is lost. Barack Obama
Interesting to read the thoughts and about the actions of someone who has a long view across decades of this important matter. Thanks to women like Christine Nixon and those who have supported her men and women both we are hearing more from victims of domestic violence and learning more about its prevalence and possible prevention. Lets hope future generations will be able to say that this is where this terrible problem was finally confronted across the whole social spectrum so we can really prevent domestic violence harming our community and its most vulnerable members
Comments are moderated and are generally published if they are ontopic and not abusive.
Just how beneficial are Australias free trade agreements Fairfaxs Peter Martin explains. 
and the Advisory Board of the Association of Domestic Violence Intervention Programs
Resources for researchers policymakers intervention providers victim advocates law enforcementjudges attorneys family court mediators educators and anyone interested in family violence
The worlds largest domestic violence research data base pageswith summaries of peerreviewed studies.
Over the years research on partner abuse has become unnecessarily fragmented and politicized. The purpose of The Partner Abuse State of Knowledge Project PASK is to bring together in a rigorously evidencebased transparent and methodical manner existing knowledge about partner abuse with reliable uptodate research that can easily be accessed both by researchers and the general public. 
In March the Senior Editor of Partner Abuse recruited family violence scholars from the United States Canada and the U.K. to conduct an extensive and thorough review of the empirical literature in broad topic areas. Researchers were asked to conduct a formal search for published peerreviewed studies through standard widelyused search programs and then catalogue and summarize all known research studies relevant to each major topic and its subtopics. In the interest of thoroughness and transparency the researchers agreed to summarize all quantitative studies published in peerreviewed journals after as well as any major studies published prior to that time and to clearly specify exclusion criteria. Included studies are organized in extended tables each table containing summaries of studies relevant to its particular subtopic.
In this unprecedented undertaking a total of scholars and research assistants at universities and research institutions spent two years or more researching their topics and writing the results. Approximately studies were considered and more than were summarized and organized into tables. The manuscripts which provide a review of findings on each of the topics for a total of pages appear in consecutive special issues of Partner Abuse published between April and April . All conclusions including the extent to which the research evidence supports or undermines current theories are based strictly on the data collected.
Copyright text by Domestic Violence Research. Designed by Thrive Themes
U.S. Soccer was plagued with a distraction on Sunday one day before its womens national team begins group play in the World Cup here against Australia. An ESPN report detailed disturbing allegations that star goalkeeper Hope Solo verbally abused police officers after a domestic conflict that led to her arrest last year.
Youre such a bitch Solo said to one officer according to a police report. Youre scared of me because you know that if the handcuffs were off Id kick your ass.
Solos halfsister Teresa Obert went on camera describing her account of the alleged attack accompanied by photos of scrapes on her neck and a bruise on her face. When asked if U.S. Soccer had asked for her side of the story Obert said no. And in that moment Solos protectors looked nearly as poor as Solo did.
Head coach Jill Ellis dismissed several questions about the report during her Sunday evening news conference insisting That was a long time ago. That response would have a lot more credibility if Ellis and U.S. Soccer had fully investigated and disciplined Solo last year instead of taking the easy way out. If the coach had suspended Solo even for a half in she could have taken a stronger stand now saying her organization had dealt with the matter. Yet its another upsetting surprise another troubling glimpse at Solos problems and another nonsoccer soccer story for a sport that really could use some favorable news.
The unwillingness of sports organizations to get all sides of a story in a criminal case is both disappointing and counterproductive. Its happened a lot over the last year.
NFL commissioner Roger Goodells meeting with Ray Rice after he punched thenfiancee Janay Palmer in a casino elevator was extremely light on tough questions and didnt even include a query about whether Rice struck Palmer with an open or closed fist. The Minnesota Vikings rushed to support running back Adrian Peterson immediately after he was arrested for whipping his child but then they had to backtrack when another incident surfaced. Dallas Cowboys coach Jason Garrett said he and the team did exhaustive research on Greg Hardy before signing him after a horrific domestic violence incident but didnt talk to anyone in Hardys family. The Chicago Bears brought in Ray McDonald after his own domestic violence arrests trumpeting his willingness to pay for his own flight to Chicago only to have to cut him when McDonald was arrested again and accused of domestic violence and child endangerment.
In all of these situations it seems teams and leagues dont really want unfavorable accounts. They want to believe their star didnt do anything wrong or at least didnt do anything worse than what the public is privy to. So they ask a few painless questions and then sweep it all away. Thats a shortsighted plan viable for getting through one news cycle but prone to create more news cycles later. Thats exactly what happened in the Solo situation as U.S. Soccer failed to talk to all the people involved and then the people involved ended up talking to the media on the eve of its teams first Womens World Cup match.
U.S. Soccer like all of these teams and leagues should do its own due diligence and be thorough. If not for the community and for the victims and the millions of fans who care do it for the athletes themselves. Solo surely didnt want her past being hauled out again before the biggest tournament of her life. She doesnt need a new group of fans reading about and discussing her behavior even while she plays on the worlds stage. If she went through a real punishment like the day suspension she served for being in the team van that husband Jerramy Stevens was pulled over for driving while intoxicated its possible last weeks news conference questions about her domestic violence issues wouldnt have been asked. And Solo could have said she went through a thorough process and an investigation and she feels its time to start anew. Maybe then last years news would have truly been last years news.
Instead the organization went with the headinthesand strategy and now were right back where we were in October. It could get even worse for Solo. Although her case was dismissed after Obert and her son failed to appear for a court ordered interview prosecutors have filed an appeal with arguments expected in September.
Still Ellis sidesteps. When asked Sunday about the new report she said Ill be honest. Weve moved on.
Hopes were skyhigh when intrepid skydivers from the Black Country took to the air for a recordbreaking charity jump.
A charity which offers advice and help to victims of domestic violence has been forced to close down due to lack of funding.
A womans sex films secret sent her exlover into a rage that has landed him behind bars for months.
This is the man police would like to locate in connection with domestic violence offences.
A new report has rated the way Staffordshire Police treats vulnerable victims of crime as inadequate.
Council funding to a charity that helps victims of domestic violence in Wolverhampton will end next month.
A motherofthree from Wolverhampton caught shoplifting has been given a curfew and told to pay compensation to the shops she stole from.
Police have turned to hairdressers for help in their fight against domestic abuse.
Robberies car crime burglaries and gun offences in Wolverhampton have plummeted latest figures show.
Victims of sexual violence are having to wait nine months to speak to a counsellor about their ordeal.
The iconic Man on the Horse statue in Wolverhampton is getting behind a campaign supporting the end of violence against women.
Almost will be spent tackling the toxic trio of domestic abuse mental ill health and substance misuse in Walsall.
I really thought that he was going to kill me. I became terrified of the man that I loved.Kayli Hill says she is lucky to be alive after plummeting from a third floor balcony following a relentless beating from her former lover.
Serving West Midlands Police officers who left a foulmouthed and abusive voicemail on the phone of an alleged crime victim have accepted their actions amounted to misconduct a disciplinary panel has heard.
A thug beat up his exgirlfriend in front of his children and then left her for dead for two days until she came round and saw her injuries when she took a selfie.
Dozens of men and women slipped into high heels and walked a mile to raise awareness of domestic abuse.
Researchers practitioners and service users will come together to gain an insight into domestic violence and mental health at a special event at Edge Hill University.
It is now well accepted that abuse is often the main factor in the development of depression anxiety and other mental health disorders. On the other hand mental health issues can also be used by the abuser to torment the victim further.
Domestic violence can have an enormous effect on mental health. In order to understand the issues further the British Sociological Association of Mental Health Study Group and Edge Hill University have joined together for an event on th June.
A Difficult Alliance Making Connections between Mental Health and Domestic Violence aims to stimulate debate and compare sociological research in these areas and how this work can inform mental health policy and practice.
The Division on Domestic Violence in the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services and other victim serving agencies in Chicago are important in the effort to respond to family violence.
If you or someone you know is experiencing domestic violence you can ring the Domestic Violence Line for help on .
The Domestic Violence Line is a statewide freecall number and is available hours seven days a week.
The Domestic Violence Line provides telephone counselling information and referrals for women and samesex partners who are experiencing or have experienced domestic violence.
Trained female caseworkers are sensitive to the needs of people who have experienced domestic violence.
Domestic Violence Line staff are aware of the special needs of Aboriginal women and women from other cultures as well as those living in rural and remote areas.
Interpreters and TTY can be arranged where necessary to ensure that all people regardless of their language or disability can use the service.
The service has an extensive list of contacts people and services across NSW who can help.
The Domestic Violence Line makes referrals to womens refuges and explains what they are and what they do.
It also makes referrals to family support services counselling the police and courts lawyers and hospitals. It helps with transport emergency accommodation and other relevant support.
Caseworkers can explain what an Apprehended Violence Order AVO is and how to obtain one. Police intervention can be arranged where appropriate and assistance can be provided to transport women and children to a safe place.
To report suspected child abuse or neglect call the Child Protection Helpline on hours days
Domestic violence against women remains a major concern in todays society. The problem is so severe that it affects people from all ways of life regardless of socioeconomic status ethnicity age and religion. The statistics on this issue are alarming.
Murder Every day four women die in this country as a result of domestic violence the euphemism for murders and assaults by husbands and boyfriends. Thats approximately women a year according to the FBI. The number of women who have been murdered by their intimate partners is greater than the number of soldiers killed in the Vietnam War.
Battering Although only reports of assault by intimates are officially reported to federal officials each year the most conservative estimates indicate two to four million women of all races and classes are battered each year. At least of those violent incidents are serious enough to require hospitalization emergency room care or a doctors attention.
Sexual Assault Every year approximately women report that they have been victims of rape or attempted rape and more than half of them knew their attackers. Its estimated that two to six times that many women are raped but do not report it. Every year . million women are forcibly raped by their current or former male partners some more than once.
The Targets Women are times more likely than men to be victimized by an intimate.
Impact on Children Violent juvenile offenders are four times more likely to have grown up in homes where they saw violence. Children who have witnessed violence at home are also five times more likely to commit or suffer violence when they become adults.
Impact on Health and Social Services Women who are battered have more than twice the health care needs and costs than those who are never battered. Approximately percent of pregnant women report having been battered and the results include miscarriages stillbirths and a two to four times greater likelihood of bearing a low birth weight baby. Abused women are disproportionately represented among the homeless and suicide victims. Victims of domestic violence are being denied insurance in some states because they are considered to have a preexisting condition.
Domestic violence is a way of behaving in an intimate or family relationship in which one partner is forced to change his or her behavior in response to threats or abuse from the other partner. A lot of times the violence is physical but it can also involve threats isolation intimidation harassment emotional mistreatment forced sex or making threats with regard to deportation. Upon arrival in the U.S. immigrant and refugee women frequently face the trauma of having their lives uprooted being deprived of their family and community ties and becoming dependent on their male partners financial resources and language abilities. When faced with domestic violence their isolation is often exacerbated by cultural beliefs and practices that excuse deny and decriminalize the violence and ignore its effects on their physical and emotional health. Direct services for battered women often fail to meet the language needs of women of limited English proficiency further isolating them. Thus immigrant and refugee women are often physically and emotionally harmed not only by the violence they experience but also by systemic isolation and revictimization.
Family violence not only violates the basic right of the refugee women to have a violencefree life but also has damaging effects on refugee children who continue witnessing violence in their homes. Family violence teaches children that violence is acceptable. Refugee children who witness violence in their homes have a higher chance of dropping out of school and of committing a violent crime. Children from homes where one parent is abusing the other also have a greater chance of being abused.
Refugee and immigrant men who use violence against their families experience trauma loss and isolation in the immigration process and are also supported in the use of violence against their families by the very cultural norms that isolate the women in their lives. Moreover immigrant and refugee men court mandated to domestic violence intervention are rarely provided appropriate language services and many are allowed to attend pay fees and exit without meaningful participation heightening the risk of further violence with its resultant physical and emotional harm to the women and children survivors.
Please tell us if you need us to call you back and remember whenever we call you our number will appear as a blocked.
Womensline About Womensline DVConnect Womensline is the only state wide telephone service offering women who are experiencing domestic or family violence hours a day days a.
Mensline About Mensline Mensline is a free confidential telephone counselling referral and support service especially set up for men. It is a Queensland wide service that operates.
Sexual Assault Helpline About Sexual Assault HelplineHow we help The Statewide Sexual Assault Line is here to offer telephone support and counselling toanyone women men and.
th th th May Developing safe best practice responses to Domestic and Family Violence Course registrations now open . See MoreSee Less
Join us on Wednesday the th of May to remember those who have died because of Domestic and Family Violence with the annual Candle Lighting Vigil followed by the Darkness to Daylight run at Southbank Forecourt starting at .pm . See MoreSee Less
You will see that we have shared the page from Queensland Says Enough Facebook page on the passing of the Strangulation Law in Parliament last night.DVConnect as a founding member of the Domestic Violence Death Review Action Group DVDRAG whose Facebook page is that mentioned below and we are absolutely delighted to see this law passed. We want To acknowledge the leadership of Betty Taylor who has been the driving force behind DVDRAG and our year campaign. It cannot be posted enough..statements.qld.gov.auStatementstrangulationtobeastandaloneoffenceunderqueensla. . See MoreSee Less
As a not for profit service DVConnect relies on the QLD community for grants gifts private donations and corporate sponsorship to continue our valuable work.
Links to information stories articles analysis and commentary about family violence. Read the June edition and catch up with earlier editions.
This conference is for accredited MBCP providers and practitioners future providers program managers and professionals wishing to develop their skills in engaging men who use abuse in the home while prioritising the safety of women and children. WednesdayThursday May . am to . pm in Surry Hills Sydney.
Our Watch supported by No To Violence Mens Referral Service Domestic Violence Victoria CASA Forum and the Federation of Community Legal Centres Victoria has made a submission to the Victorian Governments Gender Equality Strategy.
Our name is No To Violence incorporating the Mens Referral Service. Find out more.
NTVMRS joined representatives from other Australian family violence services to lobby for dedicated secure and ongoing federal funding of family violence specialist services.
No To Violence Mens Referral Service has sent a state budget submission to the Victorian government. It identifies what needs to be done to strengthen perpetrator accountability within an integrated Victorian family violence service system to increase the safety of women and children. Find out more.
In February Victorias Minister for Families and Children Jenny Mikakos visited NTVMRS to announce a . million funding boost for the states mens behaviour change programs. The Mens Referral Service will receive an additional and to help reduce mens behaviour change program waitlists the government will provide a further to train more program facilitators.This funding is part of the Victorian Governments million Family Violence Fund. Find out more Victorian government media release.
What a year Never before have we seen family violence so firmly on the public agenda. The NTVMRS top five topics in . Read the report.
Family violence prevention in Victoria involves a long wait and we need to cut it quickly. The next step is about money but it is also about lives to be saved.
To find out more including how to join No To Violence call during
Debate about family violence prevention and the effectiveness of programs for perpetrators is timely. However Martin McKenzieMurrays recent Saturday Paper story fails to cover the territory adequately and demonstrates that onesided discourse is no substitute for an analysis of the facts and fair evaluation of the arguments. Find out more.
Fathering in the context of domestic and family violence. The aim of this project is to improve the parenting experience of children whose fathers have used domestic and family violence. Find out more.
The Victoria Magistrates Court Family Violence Taskforce has submitted its recommendations to the Royal Commission. No To ViolenceMens Referral Service is a member of the taskforce. Read the submission. Also read the OurWatch submission and also the No More Deaths Alliance principles framework for family violence system reforms. NTVMRS is a member of OurWatch and the No More Deaths Alliance.
In June No To Violence and the Mens Referral Service will send a combined submission to the Royal Commission NTVMRS will comply with the Royal Commissions submissions timetable for peak organisations. Contributions from the NTV membership base including volunteers mens behaviour change providers individual members practitioners and agencies form a major part of our submission. Find out more.
A recently released Western Australian evaluation of courtrelated mens behaviour change programs showed significant effectiveness in reducing recidivism amongst family violence offenders. Read the evaluation report and the No To Violence comment about the evaluation.
Findings from a landmark UK study show very strong evidence for the effectiveness of accredited domestic violence perpetrator programs. Download the final report read the summary of findings by UK Respect and visit the Project Mirabal website.
New South Wales service providers who have met the minimum standards for mens domestic violence behaviour change programs are members of the Mens Behaviour Change Network MBCN NSW. Find out more.
An examination of domestic violence programs attended by men voluntarily or through referral shows a large drop in reports of physical and sexual abuse.
James McCarthy Chairperson of No To Violence and the Mens Referral Service has announced the appointment of Jacqui Watt as the new NTVMRS Chief Executive Officer. Jacqui will take up the position on February . Find out more.
The men we deal with come from a variety of backgrounds their levels of entitlement might be different but ultimately they all feel some level of it.
No To Violence has responded to a question taken on notice about male victims at the November hearing of the Senate Committee inquiry into Domestic Violence.
In the lead up to the Victorian election the No More Deaths Alliance identified changes required to help save the lives of those affected by family violence. The Alliance and Fair Agenda then surveyed political parties standing in the election about their commitment to key related actions. Find out the results.
No To Violence is involved in this Australias National Research Organisation for Womens Safety ANROWS funded project about the interface between child protection and family violence services. Find out more.
No To Violence is seeking expressions of interest from suitably qualified people to supervise students undertaking the Graduate Certificate of Social Science Male Family Violence. Find out more.
No To Violence and Domestic Violence Victoria welcome the announcement that a further million over four years will be allocated to protect and support women and children experiencing family violence May . Read more.
Hear NTV contribute to a halfhour special on Triple Js Hack on why men perpetrate intimate partner violence. Hear the program and read listener comments May .
Read other recent ABC stories from NSW about domestic violence and calls to take urgent action May .
The Victorian Governments inadequate state budget response to preventing family violence deaths.Read more May .
Read NTVs views on the Department of Human Services DHS increase in mens behaviour change program MBCP funding initially announced in the state government budget. Read the full document April .
No To Violence recently conducted individual consultations with Victorias mens behaviour change program providers about what as a peak body NTV could do differently or do more of. Read an analysis of their views.
With the focus on recent shocking violence against women and children in Victoria view the program segment Violent Men Tuesday April starts min secs into the program.
In the wake of recent horrendous family violence related murders Victorias peak and statewide family violence bodies call for an urgent minimum investment of million into the family violence system to tighten the net so that men who are a danger to Victorian women and children no longer go undetected. Read more.
Watch this ABC . Victoria discussion that includes a call for the Victorian government to provide leadership and commitment to plug the holes in the states family violence service system. View the debate.
In February this year NTV was asked to provide a twoday workshop in Nadi Fiji on Australian experiences with domestic violence perpetrator programs. Find out more.
November is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women the first day of the Days of Activism Against Gender Violence that ends on December Human Rights Day. Read about how men can contribute in sensitive and genderaware ways.
Family violence perpetrators are being turned away from programs to change mens behaviour with half of those offered in Melbourne no longer taking referrals. Read the full story in The Age.
NTV is proud to be an industry partner in this exciting threeyear multistate research program funded through an Australian Research Council Linkage Project grant. Read more.
The latest White Ribbon Foundation fundraising campaign Help out by staying in demonstrates a lack of understanding of some of the fundamental issues relating to family violence and mens violence against women. Read more. Prevention can save children letter to the editor The Age October 
Links to information stories articles analysis and commentary about family violence issues published in the Australian and overseas media across the previous four weeks.
The Mens Referral Serviceis an anonymous and confidential phone service for men who use family violence and for professionals seeking advice.Call 
For example the general assumption women are victims men are abusers ignores data indicating that battered husbands comprise a significant percentage of domestic violence victims. Equally women who do not fit the stereotype of victimhood are ignored. The fault lies with the stereotypes not with the nonconforming victims.
The underlying ideology of domestic violence is politicallycorrect feminism which considers women to be oppressed by male power and the institutions of society including traditional marriage. Accordingly domestic violence has been subjected to a blackandwhite analysis that rests upon stereotypes.
From the politically correct perspective a domestic violence victim is a woman so traumatized by violence that she has become virtually incapable of making the choice to leave. Children or financial dependence may be complicating factors.
The domestic violence abuser is portrayed as a dominating man but he is more than this. He has become a symbol of the violence presumed to lurk beneath the surface of everyman. Some antidomestic violence ad campaigns even target young boys in order to nip their violence in the bud.
For the many real world victims the realities of domestic violence flatly contradict such stereotypes. For them the characterizations serve as barriers to understanding and healing.
I know because for over a decade Ive struggled to make sense of my own abuse and feminist explanations made that torturous process more difficult than it had to be. Domestic violence is a shattering experience because the victim is betrayed by a loved one. Selfrespect is slowly stripped away until he or she is left psychologically naked not knowing who to trust or what a normal relationship looks like.
Some domestic violence victims undoubtedly fit the description offered by PC feminism. But gender stereotypes become destructive when they cease to make general claims and purport to say something that is necessarily true of every individual woman or man every victim or abuser.
The inadequacy of the stereotypes became clear to me through one question. Why did I stay It is a question PC feminism never asks because to do so would acknowledge a fact that contradicts its theories. Namely some victims choose to stay which means they could choose to leave.
For PC feminists even an intelligent and otherwise competent woman who can explain why she stays for example to help a loved one through a temporary addiction is not deemed to have really chosen.
For one thing staying is viewed as a bad choice. As true as this may be however it does not negate the fact that staying is a choice.
No one deserves to be beaten no one is to blame for being on the receiving end of a fist. An abuser doesnt escape legal and moral culpability so easily. But a chronic victim owns it to herself or himself to seriously explore their own participation in a relationship of continuing abuse.
This is not callousness it is an attempt to help. The path out of victimhood may well lie in acknowledging the power of choice that lies inside each victim. Some choices are incredibly more difficult than others.
And yet some choice is almost always possible even small steps like phoning an anonymous helpline or unpleasant ones like asking for help.
Only when I took responsibility for my choices was I able to answer Why did I stay As long as I denied responsibility for my actions and bought into theories that pathologized my choices out of existence I couldnt get past that one question.
It is not merely that abusers can be women. It is also that the current stereotype seems to make no distinction on matters such as the frequency and severity of abuse. This lack of subtlety obscures rather than informs.
For example I dont believe a man who slaps a woman or vice versa during a lovers quarrel is comparable to an abuser who batters on a daily basis. As unacceptable as a slap in a moment of passion may be it is different in kind from deliberate and ongoing sadism.
In addition I dont believe that an abuser who hits once will necessarily do it again. A close friend once became drunk and literally attacked her fiance so viciously and without cause that the relationship almost ended on the spot. She swore off alcohol and nothing remotely similar has occurred in the years since.
The PC stereotypes that have defined the issue of domestic violence are inadequate and they are hurting victims who do not conform. Male and samesex victims women who choose to stay victims of onetime abusethese people are being ignored or damaged by the current approach. There is no excuse for ignoring the reality of victims who need desperately to be heard.
But ideology makes many socalled victim advocates turn a deaf ear to their cries for help.
This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed. FOX News Network LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed minutes. Privacy Terms FAQ
Ministers are considering making lessons on domestic violence in relationships part of the national curriculum. Sessions are likely to form part of personal health and social education. Teachers will be given new guidance on tackling gender bullying. The proposals are part of a crossgovernment strategy to tackle violence against women and girls to be launched later this year. It is previewed in a review of violent crime published by the Home Office.
To read the rest of this article and access the full TES archive subscribe now.
This website and its content is subject to our Terms and Conditions. TES Global Ltd is registered in England Company No with its registered office at Red Lion Square London WCR HQ.
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News My Clippings My Comments and user settings.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below you can go to our login page.
Spare a thought for the ladies the seemingly invisible per cent of our population.
Not for us a frontpage campaign against violence nightly television news updates and thundering editorials demanding authorities act on the scourge of drunken violence.
The way the media and politicians have been carrying on lately youd think the only people getting the living daylights belted out of them at the moment are young men in Kings Cross.
But women and children are more likely to be belted at home than a man is to be struck by a stranger on the street.
While street violence rates are falling domestic violence rates are holding firm.
In Victoria the police were called to family violence incidents in laying charges in of the cases. In NSW the police recorded domestic assaults in the months to September.
This hidden violence can become a silent killer. In Victoria alone there were homicides in family settings in . Now compare that with onepunch assaults which have claimed lives in Australia since .
In case anyone thought women werent falling victim to alcoholfuelled violence the Australian Institute of Criminology says per cent of all intimate partner homicides involve alcohol. That figure rises to a whopping per cent of intimate partner homicides involving indigenous people.
However women will be the perhaps unintended winners in Premier Barry OFarrells tough new one punch laws. The new laws against alcoholfuelled violence he plans to introduce this week will apply statewide both inside the home and on the street.
That means anyone affected by alcohol or drugs found guilty of inflicting a onepunch assault on someone who dies will face a minimum mandatory sentence of eight years and a maximum sentence of years. Those found guilty of alcohol or drugfuelled assaults affray or sexual assault will attract minimum mandatory sentences of between two and five years.
La Trobe University PhD candidate Ingrid Wilson who is researching the effect of alcohol on aggression in relationships says domestic violence has never captured the public imagination the way random street attacks have. The same is true for public drinking.
Most of the alcohol policy attention has focused on drinking in public places but weve yet to shine a spotlight on drinking and violence within private premises she says.
Just as alcoholfuelled violence isnt only a street issue its also not only a lawandorder issue. The Australian Medical Association and others have backed the Greens push for a wideranging inquiry into Australias alcohol problem including the cost labelling and marketing of grog.
It is a move resisted so far at least by Prime Minister Tony Abbott. Instead the federal government will limit its inquiry to the effects of alcohol on indigenous Australians.
However as Indigenous Affairs Minister Nigel Scullion pointed out recently the issue cannot be fenced off by racial grounds. This is about a challenge that faces all Australians.
By treating it as a street violence problem a Sydney problem or an indigenousonly problem we miss a valuable opportunity to make the hidden victims of alcoholfuelled violence visible again.
Albeit unintended a happy consequence of the new laws will be that they reach into the homes of violent individuals there will be no refuge for the offenders. However given it is likely that this scenario was not fully considered when developing the new laws there may be a few surprises to appear but not necessarily unwanted or undeserving of celebration.
Congratulations Bianca. Day after day there are reports on TV news viualised with police tape and the wrapped body of another woman being placed in a van. The news reader goes on impassively and a drunken fool oaf thug or bully take your pick will have his day in court but she provoked me your honour and I was drunk My client deeply regrets his action your honour and his family will offer him support your honour. Sound familiar I am sick of it. Alcohol takes a huge toll in violence mayhem dislocation shame joblessness financial distress and all sorts of other evils. Yet we stand by and condone it largely I believe because the male culture in this country impassive inarticulate and socially retarded needs grog as a prop and a shelter and will not be gainsaid. Many years ago I sat opposite a father at a parentteacher evening who could not even front a conversation about his daughters school progress while sober. My own life and that of my children has been ruined by an alcoholic husband and I felt helpless because I was told that he was just being being a typical nuisance.meanwhile my children and I were being horrendously emotionally abused. As a whole society we need to act. This is a whole community enterprise and one we can no longer remain silent on. Too many women and children are dying. How many more will it take
Lets also remember that most child sexual abuse is done by family members and that gets little coverage while the churches are in the spotlight.
Then we have the government deliberately torturing refugees in concentration camps and the media and much of the public thinks that is marvellous on the basis that if we torture refugees here it might stop some other refugee thinking they might want to stay alive.
The problem with minimum mandatory for those who commit acts of violence while under the influence of drugsalcohol it does not equally address the level of violence committed those not under the influence.
If anyone was truly serious about stamping out violence of any sort then the laws and supporting sentencing would be more than a slap on the wrist and a good behaviour bond for ALL acts of violence whether drunk high or sober. Otherwise you may get repeat offenders getting off continuing the DV cycle all because they were sober.
Bianca someone has spared a thought for the seemingly invisible per cent. A specialist squad in the NSW Police dedicated to domestic violence the availability of Apprehended Violence Orders specifically developed for domestic violence specialist police officers trained in dealing with and investigating domestic violence the availability of safe houses and shelters for women and children under threat special court procedures for women who are victims of domestic violence so they dont have to face their attacker.etc. These initiatives have been introduced in the past due to thunderous editorials and public outrage yet your article implies nothing has ever been done. Domestic violence is one of the most difficult areas of law enforcement because it often deals with victims who are reluctant to pursue charges unlike the random victim in the street who will have no hesitation in pursuing hisher attacker. It is not as simple as nondomestic violence. Its law enforcement response is therefore entirely unique and would not benefit from being lumped in with a general alcohol response strategy. Success comes from trying to persuade the victim to pursue her attacker which is quite a difficult thing to do and I would be more than willing to acknowledge we have quite a long way to go.
Alan I agree with you. Improvements have been made. I witnessed my mother being beaten for a couple of years. She was the strongest and most eloquent woman Ive ever met yet she wouldnt leave. She kept trying to get him help. When I finally talked her into leaving and assured her my little sister would be ok she finally took the step but still in such huge fear of her husband my sisters father. My Mother was only abused again once since separation my sister is court ordered to spend significant time with this abuser. I now understand why my Mum was so desperate to stay and get him help. He wasnt wiling to receive help yet that didnt impact his rights to his child even though his violence and criminality was proven. I was very judgemental of my Mum for staying in abuse and she constantly told me that she was the adult and she could take it and my sister was so little. I hate to say it but the system meant to support my sister and my Mum has demonstrated clearly that whilst courts allow unlimited access to violent men women will continue to stay in an attempt to mitigate the harm perpetrated against their children. I dont agree with women staying in violence but I dont agree with systems that allow violent men access to abuse children when their mothers have left the family and can no longer protect. My Mum has left the abusive marriage and she is safe. She is more stressed now than Ive ever seen her in my entire life. Her child is not safe. I was judgemental. I ask everyone to think twice and know the whole facts before they judge.
The personal safety of women is a massive problem in Australia that stretches from the home to the streets and although these issues receive a different response and indeed are different problems to an extent I think that one of the really sad things about the street culture of violence in Sydney and probably elsewhere is indeed the way in which it affects women. 
That is George Street isnt safe at certain times. Im and built like a brick dunny and I think twice before venturing into Kings Cross George Street or the Rocks after dark on a Saturday night.
What of women Does the code of chivalry that has rightly been done away with protect them from street violence Isnt it really unacceptable that anyone cannot go wherever they want whenever they want because of their gender Why should I be able to go wherever I want whenever I want but my sister feels unsafe doing so because shes subjected to sleaze or worse the threat of rape and violence 
I agree that women are forgotten victims in a lot of respects but I dont think that that is limited to the four walls of the home and that shouldnt be forgotten in a push to gender the problems weve got at the moment with violence.
There is also the argument that mandatory sentences could dissuade some victims of domestic violence from reporting the crime. So theres that.
Domestic violence rates for indigenous people showed little change in a fiveyear span. 
Glenn Randall has been charged with firstdegree murder after his exgirlfriends body was found in a Strathmore home earlier this week. 
EDMONTON A judges report on an Alberta woman killed by her drunken boyfriend despite her call for help highlights the need for updated domestic vio.
The ruby red slippers from The Wizard of Oz may remind us that theres no place like home but theyre also an integral fundraising tool for an Onta.
In case you missed it the Harper Conservatives claim that they have done more for women and girls across Canada than any other government. The actual evidence simply does not support such a wild claim. Instead of addressing pay equity the lack of which means about billion in lost income potential of women in Canada former Heritage Minister Bev Oda was more interested in freeing up from unnecessary rent and utility bills after a million funding cut to Status of Women. One out of three women in Canada suffers violence.
After a month of prorogation and a shuttered Parliament MPs at last returned to the Hill for the Governments Speech from the Throne laying out its new agenda for the Second Session of the FortyFirst Parliament of Canada. One commentator described the Speech as a breathtaking spout of freeassociating bloviation. an epic ramble.
OTTAWA Statistics Canada says about Canadians were victims of family violence in with spouses accounting for almost half the abuse.The .
New research released in Alberta this week revealed that mens attitudes toward women have progressed in some ways but in others are quite alarming .
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
especially grateful for the opportunity to speak with you about domestic and family violence and the steps that businesses can take to address this important
nation on whose land we now gather. I pay my respects to your elders past and present and all the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander men and women who
privilege of working sidebyside some of Australias most innovative and
good at engaging with issues that affect them and their employees issues in the market and in the workforce issues that may be holding them back
acknowledging when they do that what occurs outside the workplace can also have an impact on what happens within it. They know that support for employees ultimately benefits organisations as a whole. And so they show leadership on issues ranging from sexual harassment to depression to racism and beyond. 
consider domestic violence to be a problem. More often than not they reel off a list of countries from overseas and in doing so fail to recognise the high rates of domestic violence in their own country. Yet domestic and family
Australian Story several months ago. She experienced more than three decades of
Catherine explained that she was pregnant and he just pushed me . sort of a bit of a punch in the back and knocked me to the ground. I never told anyone because I didnt want anyone to think that there was a problem with
take matters into her own hands. She fled the family home and sought refuge for
Catherines daughter Vickie recalled how he would stalk local refuges to find her mother. He was obsessive. He had to find her. He had to have
leaving her former husband but only once her adult children had left home. The violence did not end there however with Catherine and her children remaining in fear for their lives as they were stalked threatened and in the case of one
charges including multiple counts of attempted murder rape and assault and
wanted to do for so long and now I can finally do them. The first thing I want to do is get rid of the cameras open my curtains get a dog a little pottery wheel and put it on my back veranda and pot to my hearts content.
workplace issue and why businesses need to address this issue with the same vigour and leadership that they have shown in relation to other issues that
violence as a workplace issue are relatively recent we have only begun to
by domestic violence are in paid employment. And as you all know what affects
mutually exclusive that one has nothing to do with the other. It is thought thereabouts and domestic and family violence occur outside those hours. Surely we might say a colleague or employee could not be experiencing violence
the workforce who are experiencing domestic violence thats enough women
violence the many individuals who do not report domestic violence and the
means that domestic violence is therefore very much a concern for business. Simply put it means that domestic violence is not something that can be neatly
participation in the workforce including their ability to find work and to attend or stay at work as well as their performance and productivity while at
participation and performance in the workforce might be affected if you were a
What if your abusive partner hid your work clothes in an effort to stop you going to work or promised to care for your children but turned up drunk 
legal proceedings move into a domestic violence shelter or see a doctor What
performance andor productivity is linked to domestic or family violence or
that domestic violence can occur in the workplace and during business hours.
continued in the workplace including through abusive phone calls and emails and
sometimes be a site of such violence the autonomy that paid employment
threats and displaying aggressive behaviour toward their own work colleagues and
workplaces regardless of whether it occurs within or outside the four walls of
has estimated that the productionrelated costs of domestic violence will cost million by unless effective action is taken to address it with
partner a woman experiencing domestic violence can be trapped in a vicious cycle of fear fear of the way in which the violence may jeopardise her
victims and survivors remaining in violent or abusive relationships the support
annual leave to deal with the effects of an abusive partner. The fear of stressful . It would have been a huge help if I could have been upfront about
that workplaces are by and large willing and keen to take steps to address
colleague or employee might be experiencing domestic violence but they are concerned that approaching them about the situation may constitute a breach of have the resources or training to know how to advise a colleague on such a
individuals do not disclose their violent domestic or family situation in the workplace for fear of the repercussions such as dismissal or discrimination. According to the National Domestic Violence and the Workplace Survey less than half of respondents who had experienced domestic violence disclosed
remain largely hidden and may contribute to discriminatory treatment by an employer because of its lack of understanding about the causes of an apparent
discussing its impact on the lives of victims and survivors for example in relation to their working lives will help to empower victims and survivors to take the necessary steps to ensure their safety and minimise disruption to the
can discourage victims and survivors from openly discussing their situation with their employer or seeking help. It may even mean that she feels she has no
employees experiencing domestic violence. There are a number of different ways
around the workplace to raise awareness about domestic violence. Examples
included in induction and training materials for new employees and that are
Ribbon Workplace Accreditation Pilot Project which seeks to recognise and accredit workplaces that are taking active and effective steps to stop violence
consult employer resources that have been developed by experts on domestic
workplace. Perpetrators of domestic violence may also bully or be aggressive
documented the journey of three men as they undertook a program to address their
that they were violent at home though this was certainly the case but that their aggression was spilling over into the workplace. Their employers told these men that if their behaviour towards their coworkers did not change they
also have likely flow on effects in the home. This is of course in addition
and equips workplaces to respond effectively can offer pathways out of violence
a woman I had known for many years who is a senior manager for a large bank. 
told them that she wanted to talk about domestic violence the prevalence data
never told before. The story of growing up in a violent household of wiping the shame and silence. She concluded by asking her staff to tell this story to everybody in the bank hoping that it would make it easier for others to tell
employee anxious about explaining an absence seeking safe options at work or
your organisation What conversations can you have What steps can you take not only to mitigate the effects that domestic violence may be having in your workplace but also on individual lives How can you help your workplace take a
of the most worthwhile I can think of. Talking about it as we are today is a that makes the discussion easier for others. I invite you then to continue the
See generally Ludo McFerran Safe at Home Safe at Work National Domestic Violence and the Workplace
Violence against Women and their Children The Cost of Violence Against Women
violence cited in Australian Services Union Family Violence is a Workplace
Police are encountering more domestic violence related to the sluggish economy a national survey of law enforcement agencies finds. 
Hermiston Police crime prevention officer Erica Franz takes part in the In Her Shoes domestic violence workshop at Good Shepherd Medical Center in Hermiston Ore. on April .
Hermiston Police crime prevention officer Erica Franz takes part in the In Her Shoes domestic violence workshop at Good Shepherd Medical Center in Hermiston Ore. on April .
The review part of a continuing examination of how economic conditions are affecting law enforcement by the Police Executive Research Forum found that of the responding agencies reported that the poor economy is driving an increase in domestic conflict up from of agencies in a similar survey in .
Domestic violence is not a separate category of crime tracked in the FBIs annual crime report which has recorded a sustained decline in overall violence since the financial collapse in . But the survey concludes that police are responding to more reports of domestic incidents regardless of whether charges are filed.
In Camden N.J. police responded to domestic incidents in up from calls in .
Camden Police Chief Scott Thomson said it was impossible to separate the economy from the domestic turmoil in the city where unemployment is . 
Thomson said domesticrelated aggravated assaults increased nearly in from levels in . The chief said the department has been tracking the calls closely because of the time and personnel they draw from a force that has been depleted in the past two years with layoffs of about employees another consequence of the poor economy.
When stresses in the home increase because of unemployment and other hardships domestic violence increases Thomson said. We see it on the street.
Eugene Ore. Police Chief Pete Kerns said troubling increases in assaults have coincided with the timing of the financial crisis and the slow recovery. In aggravated assaults increased to up from in . Simple assaults also were up in to from in .
Kerns said more of the assaults are taking place in residential communities in addition to nightclubs and other traditional trouble spots.
The police survey appears to corroborate findings in by the National Domestic Violence Hotline. Katie RayJones president of the hotline said that financial stress was a factor in intensifying and escalating reported abuse. 
Chuck Wexler executive director of the research forum a Washingtonbased law enforcement thinktank said police have been expressing concern about rising calls related to domestic strife for at least the past two years.
You are dealing with households in which people have lost jobs or are in fear of losing their jobs Wexler said. That is an added stress that can push people to the breaking point.
Refuge urgently needs to raise this financial year to keep the service open
Learning about the warning signs of abuse and control could help you or someone you know escape domestic violence.
If you suspect you are being abused Refuge can help you regain control of your life.
We run a national helpline refuges psychological support independent legal advocacy and services for minority ethnic women and children.
Refuge launches IMPACT its bespoke case management tool for those protecting women and children at risk
Police must act on domestic violence all year round not just during Euro 
Copyright Refuge Registered charity number . A company limited by guarantee .
The Government needs to immediately launch an inquiry into why New Zealand has such high domestic violence and maternal mortality rates compared with other Organisation for Economic Development and Cooperation OECD countries the head of United Nations Women New Zealand says.
A report by UN Women was released in Wellington today and canvassed developed nations about subjects including domestic violence and maternal mortality.
New Zealand was ranked either at or near the bottom of the countries in the study in both areas and UN Women New Zealand national president Rae Julian called on the Government to actively investigate the causes of New Zealands high level of maternal mortality and issues of partner violence against women.
Initiatives needed to be implemented to address the issues highlighted by the report she said.
The study found a third of the countrys women had reported experiencing physical violence from a partner during the period to .
That puts New Zealand as the worst affected of the countries which responded to the question.
In the past year New Zealand rated th out of the countries that reported violence against women with only Finland rating lower.
Sexual violence from partners showed a similar trend with New Zealand coming out worst of the countries that responded to the question.
The closest ranked to New Zealands per cent was Norway at per cent.
In the past year per cent of women reported experiencing sexual violence from a partner ranking bottom of the list.
The report follows a Ministry of Social Development study released last month which found more than a quarter of the countrys children had witnessed family violence.
The survey was published in the latest social policy journal and interviewed almost children nationwide the Sunday News reported.
Of those surveyed per cent had seen physical violence against an adult and most of those incidents had been in the home.
When adults children loved were involved in the violence it had more impact on the child and also affected how they coped and their decisions about telling anyone with most too scared to speak out the report found.
Meanwhile the UN report also found New Zealand as among the worlds leaders in providing skilled assistance at child delivery in per cent of cases.
However at deaths per New Zealand also we had one of the highest levels of maternal mortality within the OECD. It ranked th with only the United States and Luxembourg lower.
New Zealand also fell short with paid parental leave ranking th out of with weeks paid leave while countries such as Norway Denmark and Sweden offered and . weeks respectively.
Studies had shown that paid maternity leave increased employee retention and reduced infant mortality and postpartum depression the report said.
The proportion of women in parliament ranked highly at eighth equal with Spain but th for the number of women in ministerial positions
New Zealand Ireland and Spain were the only three countries which did not allow abortion for economic or social reasons. Six countries including New Zealand did not allow abortion on request and
the wage disparity between men and women was calculated at per cent based on International Labour Organisation data.
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
People are searching like mad for one tiny South Island towns bighearted offer
Petition tabled in Parliament calling for a Government apology for convicted homosexuals
Fallen hero Oscar Pistorius sentenced to six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Fallen hero Oscar Pistorius sentenced to six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
Fallen hero Oscar Pistorius sentenced to six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
The owner of this website www.irinnews.org has banned your access based on your browsers signature bedddua.
For example the general assumption women are victims men are abusers ignores data indicating that battered husbands comprise a significant percentage of domestic violence victims. Equally women who do not fit the stereotype of victimhood are ignored. The fault lies with the stereotypes not with the nonconforming victims.
The underlying ideology of domestic violence is politicallycorrect feminism which considers women to be oppressed by male power and the institutions of society including traditional marriage. Accordingly domestic violence has been subjected to a blackandwhite analysis that rests upon stereotypes.
From the politically correct perspective a domestic violence victim is a woman so traumatized by violence that she has become virtually incapable of making the choice to leave. Children or financial dependence may be complicating factors.
The domestic violence abuser is portrayed as a dominating man but he is more than this. He has become a symbol of the violence presumed to lurk beneath the surface of everyman. Some antidomestic violence ad campaigns even target young boys in order to nip their violence in the bud.
For the many real world victims the realities of domestic violence flatly contradict such stereotypes. For them the characterizations serve as barriers to understanding and healing.
I know because for over a decade Ive struggled to make sense of my own abuse and feminist explanations made that torturous process more difficult than it had to be. Domestic violence is a shattering experience because the victim is betrayed by a loved one. Selfrespect is slowly stripped away until he or she is left psychologically naked not knowing who to trust or what a normal relationship looks like.
Some domestic violence victims undoubtedly fit the description offered by PC feminism. But gender stereotypes become destructive when they cease to make general claims and purport to say something that is necessarily true of every individual woman or man every victim or abuser.
The inadequacy of the stereotypes became clear to me through one question. Why did I stay It is a question PC feminism never asks because to do so would acknowledge a fact that contradicts its theories. Namely some victims choose to stay which means they could choose to leave.
For PC feminists even an intelligent and otherwise competent woman who can explain why she stays for example to help a loved one through a temporary addiction is not deemed to have really chosen.
For one thing staying is viewed as a bad choice. As true as this may be however it does not negate the fact that staying is a choice.
No one deserves to be beaten no one is to blame for being on the receiving end of a fist. An abuser doesnt escape legal and moral culpability so easily. But a chronic victim owns it to herself or himself to seriously explore their own participation in a relationship of continuing abuse.
This is not callousness it is an attempt to help. The path out of victimhood may well lie in acknowledging the power of choice that lies inside each victim. Some choices are incredibly more difficult than others.
And yet some choice is almost always possible even small steps like phoning an anonymous helpline or unpleasant ones like asking for help.
Only when I took responsibility for my choices was I able to answer Why did I stay As long as I denied responsibility for my actions and bought into theories that pathologized my choices out of existence I couldnt get past that one question.
It is not merely that abusers can be women. It is also that the current stereotype seems to make no distinction on matters such as the frequency and severity of abuse. This lack of subtlety obscures rather than informs.
For example I dont believe a man who slaps a woman or vice versa during a lovers quarrel is comparable to an abuser who batters on a daily basis. As unacceptable as a slap in a moment of passion may be it is different in kind from deliberate and ongoing sadism.
In addition I dont believe that an abuser who hits once will necessarily do it again. A close friend once became drunk and literally attacked her fiance so viciously and without cause that the relationship almost ended on the spot. She swore off alcohol and nothing remotely similar has occurred in the years since.
The PC stereotypes that have defined the issue of domestic violence are inadequate and they are hurting victims who do not conform. Male and samesex victims women who choose to stay victims of onetime abusethese people are being ignored or damaged by the current approach. There is no excuse for ignoring the reality of victims who need desperately to be heard.
But ideology makes many socalled victim advocates turn a deaf ear to their cries for help.
This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed. FOX News Network LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed minutes. Privacy Terms FAQ
A personal guided tour to the best scoops and stories every day in The Wall Street Journal.
WSJ editors around the world analyze the overnight economic and political events affecting global markets.
The Alabama Coalition Against Domestic Violence kicked off Domestic Violence Awareness month with a candle light vigil. Thank you Dianne Bentley for your continued support. Thank you Tamika Robinson for your courage and being the voice for survivors of domestic violence.
The Alabama Coalition Against Domestic Violence would like to thank Governor Bentley and First Lady Dianne Bentley for coordinating our first statewide Christmas Toy Drive. The children will be so happy to receive their gifts Thank you for your support. DBversusDV
Thanks to my husbands Cabinet and Staff the Montgomery Medical Auxiliary Wives and Alabama Garden Clubs every child in one of our states domesticviolenc.e shelters will receive a present on Christmas Day. Thank you for your generosity DBversusDV DecktheMansion Alabama Coalition Against Domestic Violence
The National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges would like to observe Domestic Violence Awareness Month by challenging the public to learn more about children and youth exposed to domestic violence.
Thank you First Lady Dianne Bentley for standing up and speaking out about domestic violence
Remember and Act...Tonight the Alabama Coalition Against Domestic Violence will join First Lady Dianne Bentley to honor victims of domestic violence. We will remember and act.
Its here Get Domestic Violence Awareness Month started right with a candlelight vigil tonight. First Lady of the State of Alabama Diane Bentley has arranged .this event. In case you didnt know Mrs. Bentley has been very active in domestic violence prevention initiatives during her time as First Lady. She even has her own hashtag DBversusDV More info about upcoming events coming later today
Make a donation to ACADV in honor of the people in your life who have been impacted by domestic violence.
Wear purple the color of Domestic Violence Awareness Month . during the month of October and use this as a way to tell others why ending domestic violence is important to you.
Please join ACADV and First Lady Dianne Bentley as we honor the lives of domestic violence victims and celebrate the strength of domestic violence survivors and their children. The Capitol will be lit purple as will other major buildings in Montgomery.
A topic that used to be kept in the family or swept under the rug domestic violence has been more prevalent in the news and media today than ever before. As a result a lot of people are wondering how domestic violence is legally defined where victims can find emotional and legal help and what can be done to prevent it in the future. The Domestic Violence section of FindLaws Family Law Center contains information and resources for family members and intimate partners affected by domestic violence or domestic abuse.
This section provides helpful information on a variety of domestic violence issues starting with identifying early warning signs and symptoms of domestic violence. Additionally there are articles on the legal action and practical steps necessary to protect yourself from physical sexual emotional or financial abuse. Youll also find information on related domestic violence topics such as stalking and harassment and links to statespecific domestic violence laws and resources.
While one of the top health concerns in our country today many people lack a full understanding of the depth and scope of domestic violence or how it can even be identified. Victims may not realize that what is being inflicted upon them is in fact domestic violence and therefore wont know to take action against their abusers. At the same time friends and loved ones of victims may not be able to help if they dont understand what domestic violence looks like.
The Office on Violence Against Women defines domestic violence as a pattern of abusive behavior in any relationship thats used by one partner to gain or maintain control over another intimate partner. This behavior can include physical sexual emotional psychological and even economic abuse. Stalking and threats may be classified as domestic violence as well. And although we normally think of battered wives in the context of domestic abuse nonmarried partners family members children and other cohabitants can also be victims of domestic violence.
Every state has criminal statutes prohibiting domestic abuse. Whereas law enforcement typically turned a blind eye to domestic violence cases in the past new laws requiring arrests and mandating harsher penalties have led to an increased rate of response and prosecution. In addition tort law allows victims of domestic violence to sue their abusers in civil court and possibly recover damages for their physical economic and emotional injuries. Victims can also file for orders of protection more commonly known as restraining orders to prevent further abuse.
These remedies however are normally only available after an incident of domestic violence has occurred. Its up to us to stop domestic abuse before it starts. Domestic violence organizations can provide resources on how to identify the warning signs of abuse and how to exit a potentially dangerous relationship. Theres also information on how to know if a neighbor coworker friend or family member is in a possibly harmful domestic scenario and if so how you can help.
First and foremost if you feel unsafe in your home or relationship you can always call . In addition an experienced family law or criminal law attorney can assist you with everything from talking to the police about a violent incident to filing for protective orders separation or divorce and a civil lawsuit.
To use this website cookies must be enabled in your browser. To enable cookies follow the instructions for your browser below.
The World Health Organization says about a third of women worldwide have been sexually or physically assaulted by a current or former partner.
After surviving domestic abuse for over a decade Nisha is an advocate for women in abusive relationships. She believes that doctors in fracture clinics must ask women about violence in the home in order to help women find a way out. 
We met through our mutual relatives and fell in love in after a few meetings. He was visiting his family back home after years of living in Canada. He had to return to Canada on his job in a few weeks. So in a hurry we got married with our families blessings. I waited for nine months to get my immigration papers. I endured all kind of tortures by his family while I was waiting. He wrote me so many love letters and called to talk to me almost every other day. I thought I was very lucky.
May of I left my family and joined him in Canada. He was very mesmerising a sweet talker and fooled everyone. It was my first experience to fly in an airplane. I was very excited happy and somewhat scared too. I was very happy when I saw him at the airport.
In a new country with no family or friends I followed his rules and the fear he put in my mind was for real. I was not allowed to say hello to any of my neighbours. Right after the marriage he went on disability and stayed home to keep an eye on me. I became his slave and did his personal care too. He smoked got drunk every day and lived his life the way he wanted. We have two beautiful and intelligent daughters. I only got to eat one meal a day and wasnt even provided the necessities or even medicines I needed. He didnt even provided groceries for our daughters even though my family back home was supporting us financially on a regular basis. I went to the hospital quite often.
I had a surgery while I was pregnant with my first daughter to have a cyst removed. After that I had gall bladder surgery the old way and had a blood transfusion. When I was recuperating I hemorrhaged. At the same time we had a car accident and I was the one who got hurt most but he found the opportunity and went on disability. I found out that I was pregnant with my second daughter.
In in October I was watching the Rosie ODonnell show where she was promoting self checkups of breasts and mammograms. I did that and found a lump in my right breast. I said to myself it could never happen to me. I am a vegetarian never ever smoked or drank in my life dont eat junk or fried food. Every night I would check and felt it was getting bigger. Still I thought Oh it must be a cyst and God will not do this to me. I had lot of other health problems like high blood pressure acid reflex asthma migraines panic attacks and other problems. Finally at the end of December I went to see my physician and found out it was a lump. After New Years all the tests were done very fast and I found out it was cancer. The surgeon told me that he had to remove my breast. I had the mastectomy and eight lymph nodes removed. Thank god I didnt have to go for chemo. I also suffer with Osteoporosis Osteoarthritis Fibromyalgia insomnia and depression.
I take about different pills just to get by the day. I left my abuser after years of marriage in . Staying for so long was the biggest mistake. My health was compromised.
Wherever I went he went with me and he did all the talking and answering. I wish somebody in the healthcare system would have asked me and had provided me support about where to go for help. Health care providers should take this responsibility in recognising the signs and help support an abused woman. Give her guidance to get help. Nurses can also play a major role to end violence against women and children.
My advice to all the woman who are in this situation is please leave as early as possible tell someone there is help available in your own community no women is at fault or guilty for getting hit or abused dont give him this excuse that you provoked him if he will hit you once than it will not stop. Nobody deserves to be abused physically emotionally verbally psychologically or financially.
You have chosen to receive our NAMEDLISTS newsletters at EMAILADDRESS. You will receive an email shortly confirming your subscription. So excited to have you
The Supreme Court has struck down Texas sweeping abortion clinic regulations delivering supporters of reproductive rights a decisive victory in what .
A new lawsuit against the TSA is accusing airport workers of physically assaulting and injuring a teenage cancer patient The Guardian reported on Saturday. The lawsuit which also names Memphis Airport officials alleges violations of the Americans With Disabilities Act and intentional infliction of emotional distress .
The owner of this website www.businessinsider.com.au has banned your access based on your browsers signature befdafua.
To use this website cookies must be enabled in your browser. To enable cookies follow the instructions for your browser below.
Fiveyearold Michael said these words to his teachers during his first week at school.
His teachers were startled. Usually they listened to students talk about summer vacation not hear a student tell them that his mothers life was in danger. They contacted Michaels mother Daphne to report what her son had said.
They discovered Michael was right. His teachers put Daphne in touch with Safe Horizon and a day later Daphne showed up at our offices anxious yet hopeful.
As Daphne told us about her life she told us she was shocked to hear that Michael knew what was happening to her. For two years her boyfriend had routinely beaten and raped her yet she never called police. She described a harrowing relationship in which her boyfriend was not afraid to punch and kick her in front of his friends and he would often force her to have sex with them. Daphne told us that once during a brutal rape she screamed so loudly that neighbors called the police. Her boyfriend left before the police came. When they asked her what happened she lied and told them that she and her boyfriend were just arguing.
In spite of such horrific behavior Daphnes boyfriend was careful never to attack her in front of her child. Still he often threatened to hurt Michael if she ever told anyone about the abuse. Daphne was terrified of what he might do to her son so she stayed silent and suffered.
It may surprise you to know that children do recognize domestic violence and abuse when they see it. In homes where domestic violence takes place between to percent of children in those homes not only know about the abuse but can describe it in detail.
Children will also often try to stop violence when they see it happening to a parent and the consequences to children can be tragic. Yet like Michael they cannot just watch their parent get hurt. Michael decided to be brave and tell his teachers about it instead.
The compassion and concern of our supporters makes it possible for us to have community programs where Daphne could come and find someone to tell about the abuse. For families affected by violence we can provide a lot more than a listening ear. For Daphne we would help her and Michael find the tools they needed to get out of a violent dangerous situation.
Daphne told us that she wanted to leave her boyfriend take Michael away and return to her hometown. Daphne was able to come to our offices because her boyfriend was in jail for drunk driving and driving with a suspended license. She did not however want to report the violence or the rape that he and his friends committed. She just wanted to escape.
We helped Daphne get a medical examination helped her get counseling and worked with her to manage her situation.
Daphne told us she had been trying for two years to contact Michaels grandparents without success. We helped her finally reach them. When we did we learned that they had been desperately trying to reach Daphne too . but Daphnes boyfriend intercepted their calls and so they could never talk to her.They told Daphne they would take her and Michael in if she would just return to them.
Finally Daphne had a chance to escape and to be with people who cared about her. Our staff worked hard with organizations in her hometown to provide her with the financial and material assistance she would need to relocate. We also found emergency transportation funds to help Daphne and Michael travel to Michaels grandparents.
A week after Daphne and Michael left she called us. She told us that she and Michael were safe and they were happy and most of all they were grateful for what Safe Horizon did for them.
Daphne and Michael found the chance they needed to escape violence and abuse because Michael spoke up. Thanks to his young voice he and his mother can now live their lives with brighter safer futures.
Client names and identifying information have been changed to protect their privacy. Images used are representations of Safe Horizons clients.
A personal guided tour to the best scoops and stories every day in The Wall Street Journal.
WSJ editors around the world analyze the overnight economic and political events affecting global markets.
The Government needs to immediately launch an inquiry into why New Zealand has such high domestic violence and maternal mortality rates compared with other Organisation for Economic Development and Cooperation OECD countries the head of United Nations Women New Zealand says.
A report by UN Women was released in Wellington today and canvassed developed nations about subjects including domestic violence and maternal mortality.
New Zealand was ranked either at or near the bottom of the countries in the study in both areas and UN Women New Zealand national president Rae Julian called on the Government to actively investigate the causes of New Zealands high level of maternal mortality and issues of partner violence against women.
Initiatives needed to be implemented to address the issues highlighted by the report she said.
The study found a third of the countrys women had reported experiencing physical violence from a partner during the period to .
That puts New Zealand as the worst affected of the countries which responded to the question.
In the past year New Zealand rated th out of the countries that reported violence against women with only Finland rating lower.
Sexual violence from partners showed a similar trend with New Zealand coming out worst of the countries that responded to the question.
The closest ranked to New Zealands per cent was Norway at per cent.
In the past year per cent of women reported experiencing sexual violence from a partner ranking bottom of the list.
The report follows a Ministry of Social Development study released last month which found more than a quarter of the countrys children had witnessed family violence.
The survey was published in the latest social policy journal and interviewed almost children nationwide the Sunday News reported.
Of those surveyed per cent had seen physical violence against an adult and most of those incidents had been in the home.
When adults children loved were involved in the violence it had more impact on the child and also affected how they coped and their decisions about telling anyone with most too scared to speak out the report found.
Meanwhile the UN report also found New Zealand as among the worlds leaders in providing skilled assistance at child delivery in per cent of cases.
However at deaths per New Zealand also we had one of the highest levels of maternal mortality within the OECD. It ranked th with only the United States and Luxembourg lower.
New Zealand also fell short with paid parental leave ranking th out of with weeks paid leave while countries such as Norway Denmark and Sweden offered and . weeks respectively.
Studies had shown that paid maternity leave increased employee retention and reduced infant mortality and postpartum depression the report said.
The proportion of women in parliament ranked highly at eighth equal with Spain but th for the number of women in ministerial positions
New Zealand Ireland and Spain were the only three countries which did not allow abortion for economic or social reasons. Six countries including New Zealand did not allow abortion on request and
the wage disparity between men and women was calculated at per cent based on International Labour Organisation data.
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
People are searching like mad for one tiny South Island towns bighearted offer
Petition tabled in Parliament calling for a Government apology for convicted homosexuals
Fallen hero Oscar Pistorius sentenced to six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Fallen hero Oscar Pistorius sentenced to six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
Fallen hero Oscar Pistorius sentenced to six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
NORTH TEXAS CBSDFW.COM New numbers prove the problem of domestic violence is getting worse in Texas.
A new report from the Texas Council on Family Violence says women were killed in the state last year up from deaths in .
Ten deaths in Tarrant County and deaths in Dallas made both counties the second worst for domestic violence homicides.
Local domestic violence shelters are working tirelessly to change the uptick in numbers of women killed by their male intimate partners.
Its our goal and we believe its an entirely feasible goal for all of those counties to be fatality free in the very near future says President and CEO of SafeHaven of Tarrant County Kathryn Jacob.
Medical studies link longterm effects of domestic violence and abuse with many health problems long after the survivor has left his or her abuser.
CBS Local Media a division of CBS Radio Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed.
Los Angeles County Sheriffs Deputy Cecilia Hoschets life was stolen in Los Angeles Firefighter James Taylors murdersuicide. A prayer for their year old son family friends and coworkers. 
We lost a wonderful deputy last night said Sheriff Jim McDonnell. Deputy Cecilia Hoschet impressed everyone she met at the Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department with her positive and helpful approach to her work. She enjoyed being a deputy and really liked people. She leaves behind a yearold son whom she loved dearly.
I just received an email that informed me that some of the survivors were pitching together to buy me a new computer. That is so thoughtful and so kind but at this time I have a brand new computer. Any collected money for that purpose would be best returned or used for another helpful project by agreement. Again thank you so much. It was completely a surprise. I have not mentioned needing a computer or anything else in years. My bills are paid and my plate is full. 
We must . accept that some police should they choose to offend will be very able perpetrators of domestic viole.nce. No other profession has the knowledge skills expertise experience and the connections to avoid arrest and prosecution by the police as do the police. They have been trained to and have ample experience in intimidating and exercising power and if necessary coercive control over others all factors at the core of domestic violence.
This is a modified submission of the one I sent into the Qld Premiers Special Taskforce on Domestic and Family Violence in but as Taskforce submissions were not published I have put it up here for reference.
This submission examines the research relating to the perpetration of domestic violenceabuse by police officers. Where possible I have made reference to the Queensland Police Force.
The reason for my submission on this issue is simple. Officers who engage in domestic violenceabuse undermine the public trust in the police and therefore undermine the job of all police officers in preventing and responding to domestic violence. This cannot be allowed.
My research is the first of its kind in Australia and my initial findings were submitted a Senate Inquiry into Domestic Violence in Australia. My first submission No. was welcomed by Commissioner Ian Stewart. My supplementary submission to the inquiry did not attract any comment from the QPS.
My submission below is a compilation of both my former research and more recent research. It is an ongoing research interest of mine. ..................................... INDEX
Part A Introduction. Officer Involved Domestic ViolencePolice Officer Domestic Abuse Is there anything happening in New Zealand about Police Officer Domestic violence Why focus on the victims of PODA So whats the difference between PODA victims and other victims of domestic abuse History of OIDVPODA in the USA and UK Prevalence of Police Officer Domestic Abuse PODA in the media myPoliceQPS News
Police Life The Queensland Police Union Police Culture Ethics Cooperation with Domestic Violence Agencies Recommendations Appendix Poem. It happens Everywhere.
Domestic Violence can include behaviour that is physically sexually emotionally psychologically or economically abusive threatening or coercive or any other way controls or dominates another person causing fear. 
Isolation from families and friends coercive control and the inappropriate use of power are all at its heart.
It is also well known that DV is heavily under reported as in most cases the police are only called in after multiple incidents if at all. Underreporting is due to factors such as the victims fear of retaliation and further violence from the perpetrator embarrassment or shame the effect reporting may have on the victims relationship with the abuser and a lack of trust or confidence in the police to take the issue seriously or to be proactive in their response.
It also has great social and economic costs for the community and this makes it a public concern not a private matter. Millions of dollars are spent annually on police and court services health and welfare services womens refuges and social security benefits as a direct consequence of this violence. 
Dealing with domestic violence incidents is also very time consuming for the police and incidents can involve the same people over and over again.
Domestic violence was described by our former Qld Police Minister Jack Dempsey himself a former Queensland police sergeant with years experience as a scourge of society that . should not exist and . a serious and complex social issue that affects thousands of Queenslanders each year. 
Officer Involved Domestic Violence or OIDV is actually a North American term used in the literature to describe any . reported confirmed andor prosecuted incident of domestic violence wherein a sworn police officer is the suspected offender. The term is not used in Australia or New Zealand nor among police forces in the UK.
In the United Kingdom policy statements on this issue have titles such as Domestic Abuse by Police Officers Police and Police Staff as Perpetrators of Domestic Abuse Police Officers Special constables and Police staff who are VictimsSuspected of Domestic Abuse or Domestic Abuse Involving Police Employees. In Northern Ireland the policy is called Domestic Incidents Involving Police Officers and Police Staff.
Is there anything happening in New Zealand about Police Officer Domestic violence
In order to determine if any information was available in New Zealand I emailed the Information Specialist at the New Zealand Family Violence Clearinghouse. As was the case with the former Australian Domestic Violence Clearinghouse which has now transitioned to the Australian National Research Organisation for Womens Safety ANROWS I was told there was no research on PODA in the NZ database. Nor was there any information about the internal policies that NZ Police may have in place to deal with police officer involved domestic violence.
As there is no appropriate term to be used in our region I have coined my own for use in Australian research Police Officer Domestic Abuse or PODA. I hope it is accepted.
Police Officer Domestic Abuse PODA is known to exist among the police domestic violence support agencies the medical establishment and sections of the media yet for many people the knowledge that some police officers abuse members of their family or as a police officer themselves they are unable to prevent or escape abuse perpetrated by their partner comes as a shock.
The fact that police can be perpetrators is not disputed by any Australian police organisation. Indeed Police Officer Domestic Abuse PODA is openly acknowledged to exist within the organisation and there are mandated procedures for police to follow in the operational procedures manual of the Queensland Police Service QPS 
According to QPS document Procedural Guidelines for Complaint and Client Service Reporting obtained under a RTI request earlier this year any investigation of PODA and the subsequent complaint process is carried out in the same way as any other investigation of an officer who is found committing an offence or is suspected of committing an offence.
On evidence the Victorian Police Commissioner Ken Lay now retired is probably more sensitive to the issue of PODA than any other police leader in Australia. 
VicPols Code of Practice at point .. under the heading Police Employees and Family Violence includes a statement that when responding to incidents where either the affected family members or the perpetrators of DV are police officers or other police employees the attending police . must also notify a supervisor who must attend. This action is to remove any perceived conflict of interest or feelings of guilt on behalf of the responding police and in order to maintain the integrity and ethical standards of Victoria Police. 
Implicit within this statement is recognition of the difficulty some officers may have in prosecuting a colleague involved in domestic violence especially one who is of a higher rank.
An example of the difficulty some police will find when prosecuting a fellow officer especially a more senior one can be seen in a part transcript describing an encounter between a couple of Brisbane general duties officers who had pulled up a Detective Senior Sergeant for a suspected traffic violation. It reads 
The welfare response to victims of PODA is also mentioned in QPS documents. For example Section .. of the Queensland Police Operational Manual Issue Public VersionJune says under Domestic violence referral agenciesEmployee Wellbeing Members of the Service and their immediate families involved in domestic violence matters are encouraged to seek expert assistance through the Employee Wellbeing provided by the Service see Employee Assistance of the Human Resources Policies. Officers dealing with domestic violence incidents involving members of the Service or their immediate families should advise such persons that assistance can also be provided by the respective region or commands Human Services Officer. 
It would appear that the Queensland Police Service QPS does not want PODA to be widely known to exist . I believe this is because the image of an officer abusing others in their home is just not congruent with the public image the police want to reveal of its members.
Indeed if such knowledge was to become well known the public could rightly ask themselves if the police arent interested in or cant protect the families of their own colleagues how can they protect mine
The bedrock of police authority is the communitys trust and confidence in its ability to enforce the law in a fair and impartial manner and for its members not to be seen to be above the law. Consequently officers who engage in domestic violenceabuse undermine this trust and therefore undermine the job of all police officers. This relationship seems to have been ignored and this is why the QPS must get involved in preventing PODA.
As former NSW Police Commissioner Peter Ryan said . at the end of the day policing only happens by consensus. Police can only police because people allow them to.if people feel alienated from the police and resent their authority then policing goes out the window. They cant do their jobs any more.. 
Christine Nixon also a former Police Commissioner in Victoria echoed these statements when she said in her book Fair Cop .police must not lose connection to community or they lose the bedrock of their authority trust. 
However like many other police organisations the QPS has a conservative culture and this culture is reflected in the fact that domestic abuse is still perceived to be essentially a private family matter. In practical terms this means that unless the abuse impacts on the capacity of an officer to do their job or adversely impacts on the public perception of the service the QPS will not get involved. I will have more to say on the QPS culture later on.
Evidence of this attitude can be seen in the Services lack of interest in collecting any data at all on the incidence of PODA among its members.
To illustrate. In May a Right To Information RTI request was sent to the QPS to hopefully obtain the first statistically relevant Australian data as to the prevalence of PODA. Ultimately and after an appeal I was informed that the documents were nonexistent or unlocatable.
However the response to my appeal from an Inspector did reveal the following revealing information. I have quoted sections of the reply for the committees information.
a Any report made by an attending officer about the involvement of a police officer in a domestic violence incident is .held only by the regioncommand and there is no central recording model for this information which may in essence only comprise an email chain to relevant members of the regioncommand.
b . I understand that great care is taken. as information related to an officers involvement in a domestic violence incident is intrinsically their personal information and accordingly is only overviewed to ensure compliance with QPS policies that may require certain actions to be taken.
c My request for numbers of police .could only have resulted in documents relating to singular incidents being located and not the accumulation of statistics required by your application. In essence it is considered a request for each regioncommand to conduct a search of such broad scope would not be effective as domestic violence incidents of this nature would rarely if ever be recorded or held against any searchable field except the name of the officer involved.
From the response above it is clear that while the QPS acknowledges that PODA exists incidents are rarely if ever recorded. Indeed as it was stated there is no central recording of this data.
This situation is unacceptable. It has been stated that the best way to treat a problem is to admit the problem exists where possible gather relevant data and then act accordingly. Without statistics you cant know how common a problem is who is most likely to be involved what factors may be contributing to the problem and what strategies can be put in place to address these factors. I call on the QPS to collect this data and use it to better protect the families of police officers.
Furthermore I believe the QPS must change its mindset and publicly acknowledge that PODA occurs admit it has failed to take strong action in the past against this form of criminal behaviour and that it will in an open and transparent manner start to take action in the future to reduce its incidence including the collection of statistics.
It may well be that any real change will only come about with strong political leadership.
We dont condone a police officer stealing a car before and after work. We dont condone an officer drink driving or having a line of cocaine at any time. So why are we not concerned about a police officer abusing their partner before or after work PODA needs to be treated the same as any other crime because that is what it isa crime and because police families deserve the same right to protection under the law as any other family in our society. Certainly ignoring the issue is not what the Police Forces in the United Kingdom are doing.
Police officers can also be both victims and perpetrators of domestic abuse. Although not a major focus of this inspection it is an uncomfortable fact that cannot be ignored. Some of the victims we spoke to in our focus groups had been in abusive relationships with police officers.
They described their utter lack of confidence in the police response and fear that the service would look after its own. It is vital for public confidence that those police officers who are perpetrators of domestic abuse are brought to justice. Forces should also have consistent and robust disciplinary policies to deal with this issue. 
I have recently written to under their Freedom of Information Act every one of the Police Forces in the UK. Of these over half have a specific standalone policy on PODA which was accessed at no charge. The QPS could also collect these policies if they asked.
The committee also needs to know that due to the sensitive and delicate nature of domestic violence and especially PODA it is extremely difficult to find victims who are willing to talk about their experiences. Hence undertaking research in this area is difficult.
Fear for the victims and their families safety is very real. In addition the shame many victims already feel the fear of retribution and harassment from the expartner colleagues friends and pressure not to bring the relevant police organisation into disrepute are all powerful incentives not to speak out. Research into this area also requires the support of the QPS and ideally the Queensland Police Union which has said nothing on this matter.
A US study found that police officers with PTSD are times more likely to be involved in DV and dependent drinkers times more likely. 
Incidentally at the time of submitting an RTI request to the QPS a similar RTI application was made to the Qld Department of Justice and AttorneyGeneral for statistical data on the number of Custodial Correction Officers who had been respondents to domestic violence orders. However the Department replied that it would not be able to provide any reliable information.
So whats the difference between PODA victims and other victims of domestic abuse
Victims of police officer domestic abuse can be distinguished from other domestic violence victims because they must in order to have any chance of legal protection seek help from the very organisation the perpetrator belongs to i.e. the police. However If there has not been any contact there can be no police protection.
We must also accept that some police should they choose to offend will be very able perpetrators of domestic violence. No other profession has the knowledge skills expertise experience and the connections to avoid arrest and prosecution by the police as do the police. They have been trained to and have ample experience in intimidating and exercising power and if necessary coercive control over others all factors at the core of domestic violence.
And what of those victims of PODA in remote Australian communities where there is only one or two police officer stations In there were onepolice officer stations in Qld. Victims in remote communities are certainly in a situation where they have nowhere to go no one to turn to and very few if any people to protect them. 
Betty Taylor a leading Queensland domestic violence advocate who specialises in domestic violence training prevention and intervention said it was hard for victims of police domestic violence to come forward.
The area . is a dark secret still..Over the years I have supported women who have left abusive partners who were police officers. It is hard for them.as they rely on police to protect them but the police service often protects their abusers.While the media are keen to interview survivors of abuse they often dont realise how hard and often unsafe this is for survivors to do this.It has taken a long time to expose the abuse and sexual assault within the Defence Services and even now it is hard for victims to come forward. I believe it is the same with the police. Their partners are very reluctant to seek assistance for fear of reprisal.there is a cone of silence over the issue.. 
What of the repercussions for speaking out Victims who are police officers or whom are officers in a relationship with an abusive officer are already in a situation where denial and disbelief by others because of their occupation will be present. In addition speaking out against a fellow officer is to risk retaliation isolation and scorn. However wrong it is the old police culture with its misplaced emphasis on defensive solidarity silence and blind loyalty may well come into play to pressure a victim of PODA not to report. This possibility cannot be ignored.
Will action be taken It is often stated by the victims of domestic abuse that they did not report the violence because they feared reprisals did not believe they would be taken seriously or that the police would just look after their own. Until senior police and politicians speak out against PODA and there are a specific policies in place to manage it this reluctance to report will remain.
There has been a great deal of publicity about the prevalence of sexual assault within the Australian Defence Force ADF. Elizabeth Broderick the Sex Discrimination Commissioner said on the ABC World Today Program Sept that three things were required to ensure a victim of sexual assault felt safe to speak out. If we were to swap the ADF with the QPS and sexual assault with police officer domestic abuse we would have some excellent criteria with which to evaluate the current approach of the QPS.
.One is I have to believe that theres a zero tolerance for this type of behaviour within the organisation. Secondly I have to believe that action will be taken.And thirdly I have to believe that I wont be victimised or ostracised for speaking out.But it is about making sure that the message around cultural change permeates to all the different levels and particularly to the middle of the organisation because the people who work in the middle particularly at the noncommissioned officer level or the junior officer level they are the keepers of the culture and unless they decide to change change wont happen. 
Unfortunately according to this criteria the QPS at it currently operates is not providing a safe environment for victims of PODA to report. Why
a While the QPS treats the perpetration of domestic violence as extremely serious and has stated that it will apply where appropriate available civil remedies in conjunction with the criminal law the QPS does not appear to have made any allowances for the particular vulnerabilities of PODA victims.
There is for example no officially stated zero tolerance to PODA by the QPS and I could not find any statements by senior police or any Police Minister even as to its existence. Rather the impression one repeatedly gets is that a domestic is seen as personal issue and the QPS will only intervene if it is forced to do so.
Where reporting does occur there is also the risk of the abuse being replicated by the support services that the police provide. The victim must request assistance from someone who has the power to deny that help. Interactions between the victim and an agency are often one on one just as the abuse was and the confidentiality involved can mirror the secrecy that was a dynamic of the abuse at home.
A police officer who reports they are being abused at home can also face disbelief and the minimising and invalidation of their experiences as they seek both internal and external safety for themselves.
In the US based International Association of Chiefs of Police IACP the worlds largest organisation of police officials issued an update of an standalone national model policy on OIDV to ensure consistent and effective responses to the commission of domestic violence. 
It was recognised as an issue of profound importance and one that demanded a definitive response.
However the document did caution that no model policy could meet the needs of any given law enforcement agency and that each agency would need to tailor its policies to ensure compliance with all laws regulations and agreements.
American advocate and author specialising in OIVD Diane Wetendorf earlier this year expressed her frustration of the situation in the USA when she said 
The lack of progress we have made in confronting policeperpetrated domestic violence is shameful. Collectively police administrators and officers prosecutors advocates and the public continue to turn our backs on police victims. Are we afraid to acknowledge that law enforcements response to domestic violence in their own family reveals their genuine attitudes and beliefs about domestic violence in any family 
Across the Atlantic and in the UK PODA has been addressed by the Association of Chief Police Officers of EnglandWales and Northern Ireland ACPO. The Association is an independent professionally led strategic body that brings together the expertise and experience of chief police officers from the United Kingdom and Ireland and provides a professional forum to share ideas and best practice coordinate resources and help deliver effective policing. 
ACPO has publicly published two standalone documents but both were withdrawn in as they were outdated.
Both documents encouraged the Chief Police Officers to consider the application of the aims and principles of the policies to all police officers and staff as appropriate.
The first document published was the policy relating to Police Officers who Commit Domestic ViolenceRelated Criminal Offences. 
It is interesting to note that the policy clearly stated that Police officers who commit domestic violencerelated offences should not be seen or treated as distinct from any other perpetrator and should be investigated and held accountable through the Criminal Justice System in the same way as any other person. 
The role of those who might take primary intervention or evidence collection roles was emphasised. As indicated earlier a number of regional police forces across the UK have incorporated this guidance into their own procedures or the guidance sits beside their own policy and is to be read in conjunction with their policy.
The other and later document was for police officers police staff and partners or family members of officers and staff who were victims of domestic abuserelated criminal offences and noncriminal incidents. This policy was called Guidance for Police officers and Staff as Victims of Domestic Abuse. 
Most research on OIDV has been completed in the USA and the UK where it has been publicly acknowledged and discussed for over a decade or more. In both countries there was a widely publicised incident where police officers killed family members and then themselves. These incidents galvanised the public into demanding something be done about it. 
US research into OIDV began in the mid to late nineties and some early American research indicated that domestic violence was times more likely in the families of police officers than in the general population. However those studies had critical methodological flaws that made those estimates highly suspect but that does not stop American authors from quoting these statistics even today.
A more recent American research published in has shown that American police officers may perpetrate domestic violence at a higher rate than the general population versus respectively. 
Nevertheless if similar statistics were replicated in Australiaand note they would only represent those domestic incidences that are known to have occurred it would be a cause of great concern not only for the future partners of police officers but because of the increased risk to the children involved.
Other estimates have been given over the years and each has shown the prevalence to be higher than the general population however definitive statements cannot be made as there are no comprehensive statistics available no American government entity collects national data and potentially higher rates of abuse might be offset by lower rates of reporting by fellow police officers. This lack of reliable comprehensive empirical data is also missing in the UK Canada New Zealand and throughout Europe. 
As is the case overseas we dont know how prevalent PODA is in Australia as there is no literature on the issue to be found on the internet or in the Australian Domestic Family Violence Clearing House Database. 
There is also an absence of high quality and comprehensive statistical information about Family and Domestic Violence in general. In fact data on domestic violence in Australia can not currently be analysed by the profession of the perpetrator. This needs to change.
This general lack of data has led to the ABS Australian Bureau of Statistics publication Defining the data challenge for family domestic and sexual violence which is attempting for the first time to collect measurable data to improve the evidence base for these forms of violence. However the perpetrators occupation is not part of the sociodemographic data to be collected nor will it be in the future. 
Domestic abuse incidents are not regularly reported or commented upon by the Australian media. This is in part due to the Commonwealth Family Law Act or similar stateterritory legislation which makes it an offence to publish proceedings that identify persons involved in family and domestic violence. However some examples of media reports about police officers involved in domestic violence incidents are shown below. 
The Queensland Police also have a blog called myPoliceQPS News. This blog facilitates fast communication and gives general police news details crimes posts photographs and comfits of offenders and also lists each incident where an officer faces a disciplinary process. 
When reporting disciplinary incidents the blog says In keeping with our commitment to high standards of behaviour transparency and accountability we have an undertaking to inform the public when an officer faces disciplinary processes involving stand down or suspension notices. Attached to some disciplinary reports is also the comment This does not mean that the allegations against the officer have been substantiated.
This blog has only been operating since Feb . Over a period of months March August there were reports of police officers who had been stood down suspended or had other unspecified disciplinary action taken against them. The QPS has approximately plus officers. 
While various actions are listed e.g. drink driving inappropriately releasing information using excessive force misconduct multiple offences common assault of a prisoner etc the public will rarely find any information as to whether any of the officers identified as being stood down or suspended were involved in a domestic and family violence related matter. I have only ever come across one report of PODA and I monitor the blog on a daily basis. 
As noted above Qld Police Ethical Standards command say this secrecy is due to the sensitive nature of domestic and family violence the prohibition against the possible identification of an officer family members including children or any other party involved and legislative restrictions on the publication of certain information by the court and others. 
years ago today on April Tacoma Police Chief David Brame shot and lethally wounded his wife Crystal Judson who was divorcing him then shot and killed himself. The couples young children were sitting a few feet away in their fathers parked car and came running screaming to the scene. Crystal would linger holding onto life until May rd when her bedside family had to let her go. Their hearts were crushed and the hearts of people throughout the city state. and even nationally. When I heard she had just been shot over my car radio is the moment I got involved first in what had happened to Crystal then realizing how many Crystals there are. Blessings to her family the families of all who have lost someone to a violent death and to all those victims living in fear. Be wise and vigilant and try to not tire in doing all you can to stay alive. 
Coming back. have to say even though so much has happened in the news these past few months about police militarization abuse of power and accountability protests in the street citizens and police being shot anger and fire talks and vigils this page is not a cop hating page. The page description remains the same.
Im back. Im sorry for being gone so long. I got chewed up and spit out Know the feeling in this work specifically . and my heart can only take so much. Im a little tired of not enough change over so long a time.
I was reading my messages here and an OIDV victim wrote It is so hard to tell what is real out here to what is fake. Tell it She goes on to tell a trail of interactions with folks she was referred to who tell her what she has to do after her being in a. bossy abusive relationship and selfdeclared experts promoting themselves their books and their speaking engagements. 
Will the real professionals who can help officerinvolved victims please stand up 
If you have something for victims and dont mind being asked questions to be vetted will understand the caution without being defensive feel free to post here and let people know what you can offer. Anyone who really understands the victims of officerinvolved domestic violence will expect caution distrust and the need for assurance. If they dont scratch them from the list. They are not real help.
If you arent billing yourself as this or that but just would be willing to be an ear or talk that would be nice to share too. Maybe thats what most people need. The question is how to know. 
I promise nothing. I cant save a soul. I dont think anyone should have to go through this alone as long as there are others who can understand. I can only say what Ive done where Ive been and what I hope and keep fighting to come back. I can tell what Ive seen share what Ive learned and pray. But there are no promises. I can say lets support each other be careful on the internet and check out well who you give your secrets to. 
Regarding years ago today. Marlo Sandra Yniguez Gallagher a police chiefs wife and Susan L. McMahon a deputy fire marshals exwife who was living with him lived about an hour away from each other. Both died violently on December th . Both of their deaths were discussed publicly as likely suicides within a day. There were short blurbs in the news about both of them and then silence. How lovely they were what their dreams or fears were how much they were loved or how much they are missed I dont know. I know that I think of them together and wonder if they are friends in heaven.
Keara Crowder pictured has been murdered by her police officer wife Memphis Police Officer Jaselyn Grant who has been reported for dv before
Mother shot killed saving son MPD officer charged with murder Published on Nov 
SHELBY COUNTY TN WMC The mugshot of the Memphis police officer accused of murdering her wife was released by officials.
Jaselyn Grant is charged with seconddegree murder and will face a judge on Thursday. WMC Action News Investigators uncovered new details about the investigation.
The affidavit details what happened in the final moments of Keara Crowders life which investigators say was taken as she tried to save her yearold son.
WMC cameras were on the scene Wednesday morning after investigators found Crowder shot on the front lawn of her home on Bassett Hall Drive.
According to the police report Crowders son told investigators the legally married couple argued for hours before Grant pulled out two handguns laid them on the table and said quote were gonna settle this now.
Investigators say Grant pointed one of the guns at the yearold. Thats when according to the report Crowder hit Grant in the head with the second gun telling the child to run away.
The yearold later told police he heard multiple shots before he saw Grant fire a shot at him.
Crowder was shot three times and taken to Regional Medical Center where she later died. Investigators believe she was shot with Grants MPDissued service weapon.
I dont think being a police officer exempts you from any of other pressures of life he said.
Grant told investigators the shooting was in selfdefense but according to police reports her story does not match with what other witnesses told police.
As is widely reported January is traditionally the month which sees the highest number of separations and people filing for divorce.
When couples separate one of the first decisions they face is who will live where whether they
Figures released within the last few days suggest that parental child abduction where one parent takes a child to another country without the consent of the other parent or of the court has increased over the last few years. Almost children
Many people assume that prenuptial agreements are binding in this country as they are in many other jurisdictions.
This is not the case. The authority of the court in England to divide a couples assets after separation cannot be ousted. If however such an agreement
Most people will by now have seen the pictures of Rhianna following the incident which pose as a stark reminder that whilst something which is little talked about domestic violence affects people from all walks of life regardless of status. Womens Aid estimates that in women will experience domestic violence at some point in their life and sadly on average two women die as a result of domestic incidents each week. It is however important to remember that domestic abuse covers a whole range of behaviour not just physical violence and that it is something which affects men as well as women.
There is plenty of legal practical and emotional assistance available to anyone who is the victim of domestic abuse whether male or female. Many victims feel too scared or embarrassed to seek help but these are all issues which professionals who deal domestic violence are used to and can easily address. If someone has been the victim of domestic abuse they should never feel unable to raise this issue with their solicitor or feel awkward about doing so.
Sadly domestic abuse whether physical or emotional is an all to frequent an issue in the cases with which we deal on a daily basis affecting divorce and financial matters and issues surrounding the care of the children. There is a wide range of remedies available depending on the circumstances in the case. This can range from criminal prosecutions or obtaining injunctions to simply obtaining specialist help for the perpetrator to address the cause of the behaviour. The most important thing is for victims of abuse to seek specialist help whether from domestic abuse help organisations or solicitors and often together to ensure that they can get out of the situation as quickly and as safely as possible.
Slater and Gordon UK LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority SRA no. .
Slater and Gordon UK LLP is authorised regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA for insurance mediation activity.
The national debate over gun control has reached something of a breaking point in Congress since Omar Mateen killed people at a gay nightclub in Orlando earlier this month. Sen. Chris Murphy DCT led Senate Democrats in a hour filibuster last week until Republicans would agree to take a vote on gun control measures. Rep. John Lewis DGA led Democrats in a sitin on Wednesday to make the same basic demands.
These efforts are probably doomed to fail at least in the short term. But its still worth discussing the actual policies that Democrats are willing to halt congressional business in order to demand votes on. 
The most prominent and most controversial proposals seek to ban people suspected of terrorism from buying guns for instance by turning the nofly list into a nogun list. But the problem with these ideas many critics argue is that they would probably violate peoples due process rights and set a dangerous precedent especially for Muslims who are more likely to be racially profiled. 
To be clear actually solving Americas gun problem would take much more radical action than Congress seems willing to contemplate. But there are better and worse ways to try to at least reduce the likelihood of gun violence.
So heres an idea. If we dont like egregious civil liberties violations but we still want to curb mass shootings by banning certain people from owning guns instead of banning guns themselves we shouldnt focus on suspected terrorists. We shouldnt focus on people with mental illnesses either since theres no good evidence that this would help. 
After Omar Mateen was identified as the perpetrator of the worst mass shooting and most deadly antiLGBTQ hate crime in modern US history his exwife told the media that Mateen had violently abused her during their brief marriage in . Mateens former coworker Daniel Gilroy said that Mateen did not like women at all and had a temper that was scary in a concerning way.
But Mateen is far from the only highprofile mass shooter who has a history of alleged domestic abuse as Jennifer Mascia reported for the Trace in December.
There was Robert Lewis Dear the alleged Planned Parenthood shooter in Colorado Springs who was never convicted of a sex crime but who was accused of sexual assault domestic violence or stalking by three different women including his thenwife. There was John Houser who killed two and injured nine in a movie theater in Lafayette Louisiana whose wife and daughter filed an order of protection against him for domestic violence. There was James Huberty who killed people at a California McDonalds in and whose wife reported him to police for giving her a messed up jaw. The list goes on.
Mass shootings are so scary because they seem so unpredictable. They can happen anywhere and to anyone and they are often carried out by men who have no criminal history that could have prevented them from buying a gun in the first place.
But in fact the majority of what could be called mass shootings are all too predictable and many victims are the women and children who find themselves entangled in the lives of violently abusive men.
More than half of mass shootings defined as a shooting in which at least four people are killed with a gun involve a current or former intimate partner or a family member. Most of the victims of those shootings percent are women or children. And percent of all mass shootings happen inside the home not out in public. These shootings make the local news but they are both so private and so sadly routine that they almost never get the massive national attention that rarer public shootings do.
Men who commit violence rehearse and perfect it against their families first wrote Pamela Shifman and Salamishah Tillet in a New York Times oped in February. Women and children are target practice and the home is the training ground for these mens later actions.
We know that violence is the best predictor of future violence said Shannon Frattaroli an associate professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health who researches the connection between gun violence and domestic violence. If someone has demonstrated past violent behavior its probably the best indicator we have of the risk of being violent in the future.
Domestic violence in particular is extremely predictable. Its common for police to be called multiple times sometimes dozens for domestic violence incidents before a victim is ultimately murdered by her abuser. Recidivism rates for domestic abusers are high. And a substantial body of research shows that victims of domestic violence particularly women are put at much greater risk of being murdered when a gun is involved.
So if we care about protecting victims theres already a lot of incentive to get guns out of the hands of domestic abusers. And indeed there are already some laws in place to do this. Federal law prohibits the sale or possession of guns for anyone convicted of a domestic violence misdemeanor or anyone who is subject to a domestic violence restraining order. Some states have laws that allow or require law enforcement agents to seize any guns found at the scene of a domestic violence incident.
But not all states have the same laws and federal law has significant limitations. Nonmarried partners who dont live together are not protected nor are family members other than children. It helps that federal law covers misdemeanors and restraining orders since its difficult to get a felony conviction for domestic violence. But federal law only covers a full restraining order and victims face the highest risk for violent retaliation from their abusers after an initial temporary restraining order is granted and that comes before a full order. 
Implementation is also a huge barrier to taking guns away from domestic abusers Frattaroli said. It takes a lot of action from law enforcement to actually take away someones gun after he has been served with a domestic violence restraining order.
First police officers have to know that an abuser owns a gun in the first place and data on that can be spotty because not every state has a gun registry or gun sale database and not all of those databases are complete. Then an order has to be served which requires actually finding the offender. And then law enforcement actually has to go about seizing the firearm.
There are some places that are doing some great work to implement and enforce these laws Frattaroli said. But my sense is its not routine its not commonplace its not what is happening across the country on a systematic scale.
Plus for new gun purchases background checks still arent universal. So its very possible for someone who is subject to a domestic violence restraining order temporary or otherwise to get a gun even if he isnt legally supposed to.
Frattaroli and her colleague April Zeoli laid out a list of policy recommendations in the book Reducing Gun Violence in America. 
One key recommendation is universal background checks another major proposal that congressional Democrats have been pushing in their filibusters and protests. This would help solve the implementation problems mentioned above. 
To further beef up implementation efforts Zeoli and Frattaroli recommend establishing a federal training program to help state and local law enforcement agencies do a better job of enforcing the laws that already exist. They also say we should give states incentives to create gun registries and to automatically update their background check systems as new domestic violence restraining orders and misdemeanor convictions come in. 
Perhaps the most intriguing suggestion Frattaroli mentioned though is something called a gun violence restraining order. California became the first state to pass a law like this in .
Much like a domestic violence restraining order a gun violence restraining order gives a concrete emergency legal step for victims or concerned family members to take if they know that someone close to them is dangerous. They can petition the court to prohibit the person from buying or possessing a gun for a defined period of time a year for instance.
The basic idea behind this policy is that family members and friends of an abuser as well as law enforcement officers who answer their distress calls are on the front lines of abuse. They are the most likely to know if a person has a pattern of violent behavior and they are most likely to suffer from it. Yet unless someone has committed a crime or can be involuntarily committed to a mental institution theres not much anyone can legally do to keep guns out of his hands.
Omar Mateen was known to have a violent temper by more than one person in his life. The parents of Jared Loughner who shot Rep. Gabrielle Giffords and killed people in Tucson Arizona in knew he was violent and took away his shotgun but couldnt do anything more unless he had committed a crime or unless they had decided to try to have him involuntarily committed to a mental institution. The family of Elliot Rodger who went on a misogynistic killing spree in Santa Barbara California in was similarly worried about his threatening behaviors and similarly powerless to do much about it.
Of course not all mass shooters as the media popularly imagines them have a previous history of domestic violence or of violent and erratic behavior thats bad enough to make family members worried. But many of them do. And again most mass shootings arent how we imagine them theyre not school shootings or dance floor massacres. Theyre relatively private acts of horror preceded by red flag after red flag of abusive and violent behavior.
We cant predict who will become a mass shooter nor can we save every potential victim of domestic violence. But it would be an unforced error not to do all we can to keep guns out of the hands of people who are known to be violent and its a lot easier to predict violent behavior in general than the specific decision to commit a mass shooting.
Understate law a homicide is considered domestic violencerelated if the perpetrator and victim have one or any of the following six relationships.
There were domestic violencerelated homicides in according to a report from the North Carolina Department of Justice. Around two people died per week from domestic violence in .
Since the passage of a state law requiring the reporting of domestic violencerelated homicides in North Carolina had the lowest number of homicides with .
In there were homicides the highest number of homicides since required reporting.
In nearly percent of the victims were male according to a report from the North Carolina Department of Justice. Females accounted for the majority of victims of domestic violencerelated homicide in the state.
In more than percent of the perpetrators of domestic violencerelated homicides were male. This is consistent with national data that show males are often the perpetrators of serious cases of domestic violence.
According to the U.S. Department of Justice the most effective way of reducing the number of female homicide victims is to protect female victims of domestic violence. Nationalstatisticsshow that nearly onethird of female victims of homicide are killed by an intimate partner.
In Guilford County had the most domestic violencerelated homicides in the state with cases. Buncombe Wake Mecklenburg and Durham counties had the most homicides after Guilford according to the North Carolina Department of Justice.
Of these counties Buncombe County had the highest homicide rate with . homicides per people.
A wide array of support services are available for victims of domestic violence in North Carolina. Services range from emergency shelters crisis hotlines court advocacy and support groups for adults and children.
State funding supports the NC Coalition Against Domestic Violence an organization that provides support services for victims of domestic violence.
Support services for victims of domestic violence are available throughout the state.
Under state law victims of domestic violence have the right to file for a protective order.
The court determines the type of protections victims need. Depending on the case a protective order can do a number of things to protect the victim from the perpetrator such as evict the perpetrator from the residence or order payment to support the victim or children.
The court also has the power to order the surrender and disposal of firearms if the perpetrator has made threats to commit suicide or seriously harm or kill the victim andor children.
No. Under state lawdomestic violence includes stalking rape or other forms of sexual violence.
Many advocacy groups have expanded their definition of domestic violence to also include emotional abuse economic abuse isolation and coercion according to a report from the North Carolina Domestic Violence Commission.
It often does. According to a study of more than women in North Carolina offender intoxication was the most reliable predictor for calling the police. Almost twothirds of abusers were found drinking at the scene of the incident and more than half of the abusers were described as binge drinkers by their victims.
Tagged domestic violence N.C. Coalition Against Domestic Violence National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence
Why are former and current spouses lumped together in the same category How many homicide victims were currently married to their spouse when murdered
LAWS to better protect victims of domestic violence will be introduced in the South Australian parliament.
ATTORNEYGENERAL John Rau says everyone has the right to feel safe and the state government has a zero tolerance stand on domestic violence.
Researchers practitioners and service users will come together to gain an insight into domestic violence and mental health at a special event at Edge Hill University.
It is now well accepted that abuse is often the main factor in the development of depression anxiety and other mental health disorders. On the other hand mental health issues can also be used by the abuser to torment the victim further.
Domestic violence can have an enormous effect on mental health. In order to understand the issues further the British Sociological Association of Mental Health Study Group and Edge Hill University have joined together for an event on th June.
A Difficult Alliance Making Connections between Mental Health and Domestic Violence aims to stimulate debate and compare sociological research in these areas and how this work can inform mental health policy and practice.
Drug and alcohol use has long been linked to domestic violence but the exact role substance abuse plays in triggering violent events is not clear. The general consensus seems to be that alcohol and drug use may act as a catalyst in escalating conflicts into a violent outburst but isnt the actual cause of the behavior.
Alcohol can play a part in domestic violence because it can impair the abusers judgement reduce inhibition and increase aggression.
There have been many studies done on the relationship between alcohol abuse and domestic violence and the prevalence of alcohol abuse during a violent episode has been reported from to .
But there is no scientific evidence indicating a causeandeffect relationship between substance abuse and intimate partner violence.
What then does trigger violent episodes among intimate partners What does cause a perpetrator to launch a violent attack
A new approach to researching domestic abusers and their victims may be the key to finding the most common trigger for a violent episode. By listening to actual telephone conversations between perpetrators who have been incarcerated for felony domestic violence violence that resulted in serious injury and their victims researchers have been able to determine exactly what triggered the violent episodes.
Julianna Nemeth and other researchers at Ohio State University listened to hours of audio recordings of telephone conversations between male abusers who were in jail and their female victims.
The researchers were trying to determine the immediate precursor of the violent episode the one thing that happened right before the violence she wrote.
What the researchers found was that violence most often followed an accusation of sexual infidelity made by one or both of the intimate partners.
Previous research has shown that sexual jealousy played a role in domestic abuse but the Ohio State scientists were surprised to find that this particular type of jealousy infidelity accusations was the trigger that most often initiated the violence.
Other studies have found that even when subjects are intoxicated some still do not become violent or aggressive unless they feel threatened or provoked. Suspicion of infideltity could certainly provoke feelings of being threatened.
I have worked in domestic violence intervention for many years but still the findings shocked me lead author Nemeth wrote. We never knew that it was the accusation of infidelity that tended to trigger the violence.
Along with the accusation of infidelity as the main trigger for a violent outburst the telephone conversations reveal a variety of other relationship stressors that also contributed to the intimate partner abuse.
The Ohio State researchers concluded that counselors and advocates working with domestic abuse victims who are trying to assess how much danger the victim may be in should ask specifically if accusations of sexual infidelity have been discussed by the couple.
They also suggested that health care providers working with abuse victims should also screen for drug and alcohol abuse as well as mental health issues.
Previous studies have also recommended linking substance abuse and domestic violence services. Although there are different opinions about what role drug and alcohol abuse plays in intimate partner violence research has shown that providing substance abuse and domestic abuse services together can have a positive impact on ending the abuse.
If you or someone you know is it a relationship in which there have been accusations of sexual infidelity and in which there is some form of drug or alcohol abuse please seek help. There is assistance and help available in your area.
The Government needs to immediately launch an inquiry into why New Zealand has such high domestic violence and maternal mortality rates compared with other Organisation for Economic Development and Cooperation OECD countries the head of United Nations Women New Zealand says.
A report by UN Women was released in Wellington today and canvassed developed nations about subjects including domestic violence and maternal mortality.
New Zealand was ranked either at or near the bottom of the countries in the study in both areas and UN Women New Zealand national president Rae Julian called on the Government to actively investigate the causes of New Zealands high level of maternal mortality and issues of partner violence against women.
Initiatives needed to be implemented to address the issues highlighted by the report she said.
The study found a third of the countrys women had reported experiencing physical violence from a partner during the period to .
That puts New Zealand as the worst affected of the countries which responded to the question.
In the past year New Zealand rated th out of the countries that reported violence against women with only Finland rating lower.
Sexual violence from partners showed a similar trend with New Zealand coming out worst of the countries that responded to the question.
The closest ranked to New Zealands per cent was Norway at per cent.
In the past year per cent of women reported experiencing sexual violence from a partner ranking bottom of the list.
The report follows a Ministry of Social Development study released last month which found more than a quarter of the countrys children had witnessed family violence.
The survey was published in the latest social policy journal and interviewed almost children nationwide the Sunday News reported.
Of those surveyed per cent had seen physical violence against an adult and most of those incidents had been in the home.
When adults children loved were involved in the violence it had more impact on the child and also affected how they coped and their decisions about telling anyone with most too scared to speak out the report found.
Meanwhile the UN report also found New Zealand as among the worlds leaders in providing skilled assistance at child delivery in per cent of cases.
However at deaths per New Zealand also we had one of the highest levels of maternal mortality within the OECD. It ranked th with only the United States and Luxembourg lower.
New Zealand also fell short with paid parental leave ranking th out of with weeks paid leave while countries such as Norway Denmark and Sweden offered and . weeks respectively.
Studies had shown that paid maternity leave increased employee retention and reduced infant mortality and postpartum depression the report said.
The proportion of women in parliament ranked highly at eighth equal with Spain but th for the number of women in ministerial positions
New Zealand Ireland and Spain were the only three countries which did not allow abortion for economic or social reasons. Six countries including New Zealand did not allow abortion on request and
the wage disparity between men and women was calculated at per cent based on International Labour Organisation data.
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
People are searching like mad for one tiny South Island towns bighearted offer
Petition tabled in Parliament calling for a Government apology for convicted homosexuals
Fallen hero Oscar Pistorius sentenced to six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Fallen hero Oscar Pistorius sentenced to six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
Fallen hero Oscar Pistorius sentenced to six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
A consistent reduction in the number of domestic violence cases registered in the state in the peripheral evaluation seems to be a good sign but actually its not. Legal experts and activists say that the Domestic Violence Act has lost its initial charm and it has failed to be what it was actually meant to be.
Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act was introduced in India for the speedy disposal of the cases with victims who faced cruelty by husbands or relatives. Though the Act stipulates disposal of cases within days in reality it takes nearly six months and sometimes more than two years. For the helpless women who fight for existence and survival such long duration of the trials will obviously dampen their spirits whatever left and she is likely to give up say the experts.
In this particular Act unlike its predecessor A the victim can directly file the case with the protection officer in charge of a particular district who will in turn move it to the magistrate court without the aid of an advocate.
The service of an advocate is needed only during the later trials. Mahila Samakhya state project director P E Usha alleged that the help expected from the police and the judiciary was not available for the victims in majority of the cases. Normally the police personnel will be closer to the abusers family as they are from the same area. So they will take sides with the oppressor. Though the Act ensures that the victim can stay in the same house of the abuser and a Residence Order is issued there wont be enough police protection during her stay at a place which had been hell to her. Its difficult for the victims to break the social dimensions easily especially when their children are studying in schools closer to the abusers house she said. She added that it was high time the existence of the Act was reviewed in the state. Only the elite class tries to misuse the Act when ego plays a better role than common sense. Look at the poor women we daily meet they do not even want to come forward with a case let alone a fake one Usha said dismissing the allegations that the Act lost its initial lustre due to misuse by women.
Womens Commission member Noorbina Rasheed said that the cases were coming down since many parties try to settle them outside the court. The Domestic Violence Act was stipulated in such a way that no further damage is done to the marriage. Only those cases that do not get settled in compromise talks are taken further she said.
The maximum punishment as per this Act is oneyear imprisonment or a fine of . Usually the cases lead to separation and make it easier for those abusive husbands to get rid of their wives and remarry. According to Kozhikode district protection officer Lincy A K the absence of separate courts for these types of cases delays the whole process.
The magistrates are forced to consider domestic violence cases along with the other ones. This leads to accumulation of cases and delays the whole process. Thus an Act that was aimed at speedy trials and disposal loses its purpose. And there are no punishments served immediately after filing the case. Only if the accused breaches the Residence Order heshe will be punished. If the accused is a female member they would not be asked to vacate the house she said.
Find Current Fatality Review Data Keep up to date with all the current Fatality Review stats reports and publications here. Download ourFatality Review Reportshere with data and findings and recommendations from case reviews. Continue reading 
This paper from the National LGBTQ Domestic Violence Capacity Building Learning Center reports on a survey conducted in collaboration with the National Domestic Violence Hotline. Over people seeking help for domestic violence Continue reading 
TheWashington State Domestic Violence Fatality Review has consistently identified removing firearms from abusers as a priority to protect victims from lethal violence. In the Washington State Legislature passed HB requiring courts Continue reading 
The National Network to End Domestic Violence has released the DV Counts Census report. ofWashington State domestic violence programs participated in the annual oneday count. For the ninth consecutive year on Continue reading 
In the year ending June domestic violenceshelter and advocacyprograms in Washington State served survivors of domestic violence and their children including whousedemergency shelter. Shelter programs received crisis hotline and Continue reading 
In people died in Washington State as a result of domestic violence. These deaths include women and men killed by abusive partners or expartners friends family members and bystanders Continue reading 
Because a substantial proportion of sexual violence stalking and intimate partner violence is experiencedat a young age primary prevention of these forms of violence must begin early. The CDC has published a Continue reading 
Does being married make women less vulnerable to abuse Does marriage make it harder to get away from a violent partner The relationships between marriage violenceeconomic and legal ties are complicated. But the Continue reading 
Table of Washington State domestic violence homicide and suicide deaths from through December . The table is updated every six months in December and June.
New findings from the National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey The CDC has released new analysis of the National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey NISVS. The NISVS is an incredibly Continue reading 
In people were killed in Washington State as a result of domestic violence. This is significantly fewer than the domestic violence deaths in and the lowest in the seventeen Continue reading 
NORTH TEXAS CBSDFW.COM New numbers prove the problem of domestic violence is getting worse in Texas.
A new report from the Texas Council on Family Violence says women were killed in the state last year up from deaths in .
Ten deaths in Tarrant County and deaths in Dallas made both counties the second worst for domestic violence homicides.
Local domestic violence shelters are working tirelessly to change the uptick in numbers of women killed by their male intimate partners.
Its our goal and we believe its an entirely feasible goal for all of those counties to be fatality free in the very near future says President and CEO of SafeHaven of Tarrant County Kathryn Jacob.
Medical studies link longterm effects of domestic violence and abuse with many health problems long after the survivor has left his or her abuser.
CBS Local Media a division of CBS Radio Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed.
The owner of this website www.lgbtqnation.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beebdcua.
The alleged shooter is in custody and police are not releasing the name of the 
For recorded information hours a day call INFO .
The owner of this website www.lgbtqnation.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature befcedbua.
Researchers practitioners and service users will come together to gain an insight into domestic violence and mental health at a special event at Edge Hill University.
It is now well accepted that abuse is often the main factor in the development of depression anxiety and other mental health disorders. On the other hand mental health issues can also be used by the abuser to torment the victim further.
Domestic violence can have an enormous effect on mental health. In order to understand the issues further the British Sociological Association of Mental Health Study Group and Edge Hill University have joined together for an event on th June.
A Difficult Alliance Making Connections between Mental Health and Domestic Violence aims to stimulate debate and compare sociological research in these areas and how this work can inform mental health policy and practice.
If you are unable to fix the problem yourself please contact letceo at gmail.com and be sure to provide the technical support key shown above.
A growing number of men are victims of domestic violence. In France for example more than one .
During an economic crisis there is increased domestic violence against women at least according to an .
The rate of domestic violence is rising despite increasing gender equality. This is the paradox that emerges .
In about of complaints by victims of violence who have turned to the Domestic and .
I felt abused but I would never have reported it because I didnt think it was domestic .
In the number of femicides in Italy decreased by . compared to . A decline due .
I was terrified of my wife. She would kick punch bite my face and try to break .
A growing number of young Italian men are tolerating underestimating or hiding violence against women. Rosa shocking .
Giulia not her real name a young and inexperienced woman overwhelmed by pregnancy in a moment of .
In Italy the husband who abuses his wife is guilty of sexual assault even if for awe .
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News My Clippings My Comments and user settings.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below you can go to our login page.
Not long after I joined the police force in the s I discovered that three of my friends all women all police officers were being physically abused by their husbands. All three were strong and capable women. They arrested criminals. They protected the public. They handled guns.
I was shocked. I thought if violence could touch the lives of my friends it could touch the lives of any woman.
Life has changed in so many ways since the s but violence and abuse against women and girls remains with us. Fiftyseven women have been murdered in Australia this year alone most by men who were or are their partners.
The root of this violence is attitudes which devalue and exploit women and girls. Whether those attitudes are more common in developing countries than nations like our own is arguable. What is not arguable is that they still exist. And they need to change everywhere.
Now there is a royal commission into family violence in Victoria. Violence against women is widely reported and commented on. We clearly have a long way to go but our society is finally talking about violence against women and girls. As long as we treated this just as a family matter or as a personal problem or as the victims fault a solution was never going to be possible. Now we can work together to make a lasting difference.
But those billion women experiencing violence across the world need that conversation to begin where they live too. Dont think for a moment that attitudes cannot change in developing nations. They can and the change can make a substantial difference for women at risk of domestic violence.
Examples include projects by Plan International in Uganda and Zimbabwe which happen to be funded by the Australian government. Communities that often accepted or ignored violence against women as a fact of life have seen their attitudes challenged through education. While women came to understand and assert their rights police and the courts were trained to support them.
Just as in Australia the result has been a transformation in the lives of women. Violence has not yet been eliminated but it has been acknowledged. We need to go further to identify the causes and to condemn violence and abuse against women and girls. Thats our experience in Australia and it can and should be our experience around the world.
As this work in Africa shows Australia has the resources to help that conversation begin at individual community and institutional levels. But that is just a handful of communities in two countries. There are countless communities around the world rich and poor developed and developing where violence against women is ignored unacknowledged even flourishing.
We need to export our fight against violence and abuse towards women and girls even as we continue to wage it ourselves. Other countries have much to learn from the changes we have seen in our attitudes since I first joined the police force in the s and I daresay we have much to learn from their experiences.
The conversations we have together could well prove to be the key to finally ending the scourge of violence and abuse against women and girls.
Christine Nixon is a former chief commissioner of Victoria Police. She will be speaking at RMIT on Monday on ending violence against women and girls. For more information go to plan.org.au
Infected with political bacteria government corruption Australian system is topheavy with managers while those in the lower ranks are so thin Indian tribe with too many chiefs and very few braves they rarely have the time or the inclination to serve the people properly. 
Consequently this has created a culture in which every divorcedseparated dad is seen as a terrorist and is treated as such.
Accountability must go all the way to the top. Otherwise whats left of the rule of law
Candor and accountability in a democracy is very important. Hypocrisy has no place. Alan Dershowitz
If the people cannot trust their government to do the job for which it exists to protect them and to promote their common welfare all else is lost. Barack Obama
Interesting to read the thoughts and about the actions of someone who has a long view across decades of this important matter. Thanks to women like Christine Nixon and those who have supported her men and women both we are hearing more from victims of domestic violence and learning more about its prevalence and possible prevention. Lets hope future generations will be able to say that this is where this terrible problem was finally confronted across the whole social spectrum so we can really prevent domestic violence harming our community and its most vulnerable members
Comments are moderated and are generally published if they are ontopic and not abusive.
Just how beneficial are Australias free trade agreements Fairfaxs Peter Martin explains. 
We know that the month of October is traditionally set aside to raise awareness about domestic violence and prevention. However recently there have been many articles in the news concerning Ray Rice of the Baltimore Ravens and domestic violence arrests and deaths in our area. Many people have said that Ray Rice got a slap on the wrist when he was ordered to a Batterer Intervention Program after his incident with his then fianc.Batterer Intervention is a viable alternative in sentencing as it provides an opportunity for the abusive person to change his or her abusive behavior. It is a long costly process that requires accountability and a willingness to examine ones self. While the abusive person is in group he is being monitored weekly. It has been found that jail time is not effective as it does nothing to change the thinking of the batterer. Often the batterer will see himself as the victim of the court system and never really take responsibility for his actions.The attitudes of the offender are about power and control in the relationship and these are learned behaviors. Because they are learned they can be challenged and changed. This is hard work. Batterer Intervention is an important part of the community effort to end domestic violence.
Gateways Violence Intervention Program GVIP offers a group support program designed to stop family violence by creating a process of change in values and beliefs that support abuse and violence. Referrals are court mandated or voluntary. For more information about GVIP please call . If you or a loved one is in immediate danger or involved in a domestic violence situation we urge you to contact the Alabama Coalition Against Domestic Violences hotline immediately toll free at 
Domestic violence is a variety of abuse that occurs within the home between family members or couples. The typical image of domestic violence involves an adult male perpetrator and a female victim often his wife or girlfriend. However there are also women perpetrators of domestic violence and men are sometimes victims. Really any violence done by any family or group member towards another could qualify.
Domestic violence may take many forms. Destruction of property psychological and emotional abuse and physical and sexual assault are all common forms. On the milder but still quite serious side perpetrators of domestic violence may threaten victims or use verbal put downs and bad name attempt to publically humiliate them or play manipulative mind games. Abusers may be act very jealously and work to control victims access to family and friends or employment. The abuse may be extreme enough so that the victim.
Cuidado de SaludPASRROutpatient FeedbackClients RightsNotice of Privacy Practices 
LINKSDSHS Youth Empowerment Services YES WaiverHood County for Healthy ChildrenPVMHMR Open Enrollment FY RFATexas Veterans PortalNational Center for PTSDTexas Center Directory Texas Administrative Codes TACAcademic DepartmentsDept. of State Health Services DSHSDept. of Aging and Disability Services DADSSubstance Abuse Mental Health Services Administration SAMSHANational Resource Center for Hispanic Mental Health NRCHMHPlanning and Network Advisory Committee PNAC
Max Lloyd Marohn James Edward Waller and Gregory Russell Bond face charges
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Three men were charged Thursday in separate domestic violence cases in Cocoa two of which involved violence against pregnant women.
James Edward Waller Max Lloyd Marohn and Gregory Russell Bond all of Cocoa face charges after being taken into custody by Brevard County Sheriffs officers Thursday.
Waller was charged with battery by strangulationdomestic violence and aggravated battery against a pregnant woman. He is being held on bond.
He is alleged to have entered a home off Booth Street in Cocoa on Thursday evening where he multiple times pushed a female who police say is six months pregnant before choking her with his hands nearly causing her to lose consciousness.
The victim suffered bruises and welt marks on her neck. Additionally scrapes and marks were seen on her arms.
Marohn was charged with one count of aggravated battery against a pregnant womandomestic violence.
Police say he and his longterm livein girlfriend began to argue at their residence on Hess Avenue in Cocoa. The argument grew more heated until Marohn punched the woman in her left eye causing a small laceration and minor swelling.
After that police say the two fought and pulled each others hair until Marohn pinned to her to the bed and began to punch her in the back of the head.
Police say he got into an argument with is wife around a.m. Wednesday. During their confrontation Bond is alleged to have hit her several times in the head before putting her in a headlock making the victim feel as though she would pass out according to an arrest report.
The woman had red marks on her neck and chin. The incident was witnessed by the victims daughter and a neighbor as well.
Bond was taken into custody just after p.m. Thursday and is being held on bond.
According to Jacqueline Ares victim advocate with the Womens Center of Brevard in Melbourne domestic violence has trended upward in the area.
The domestic violence numbers have raised within the last year or so Ares said.
She also noted that strangulation seen in two of the three cases in Cocoa has become something thats more common in domestic violence cases.
Ares said she personally in the past six months has seen victims of domestic violence.
Ares adds that the center offers a wide array of services for victims including counseling support groups financial support safe houses and clothing and personal items.
In this Early Learning Review article our CEO Emily Maguire discusses ways to tackle both prevention and responses to family violence in early childhood settings.
Interview on AW about the Victorian Governments statewide introduction of respectful relationships education.
DVRCV is looking for an experienced administrative support worker with excellent organisational and communications skills days per week. Applications close July.
Sign up for our training on supporting women through the intervention order process July .
Unions and community groups are calling on the next government to ensure that domestic violence leave is included in all awards.
Our very proud CEO Emily Maguire Comms Coordinator Krista Mogensen with the Premiers iAward for Public Sector Innovation awarded to our SmartSafe App.
Family violence continues to be Victorias top law and order issue crime statistics show.
We are thrilled to announce that our SmartSafe App has won the Inaugural Premiers The iAwards for Public Sector Innovation. 
SmartSafe is a fantastic app helping to tackle family violence. It will save lives and its a fitting first winner of the Victorian Premiers iAward for Public Sector Innovation says Premier Daniel Andrews.
Play a leadership role in how your workplace responds to family violence through this NEW training from DVRCV on August .
You may think there are more important things to worry about but its no small task to get through a day like this one.
The answers to why women get killed by intimate partners and how we can stop it happening again are just as newsworthy as how a women was killed but mostly absent from public conversation.
Domestic Violence Resource Centre Victoria are running an introductory course on July for workers with no specific family violence training. 
It covers the e.ffects of family violence on adults and children and provides an overview of legal responses resources and referrals. 
The creators of Little Towns Big Voices say the documentary is relevant across Australia and they want it to create change and promote action on domestic violence.
We are pleased to be a cosignatory of this open letter to Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull from the Federation of Community Legal Centres.
Attitudes matter when preventing violence against women writes Australian Sex Discrimination Commissioner Kate Jenkins
Its time we talked is a new online resource for teenagers parents schools and community organisations to support healthy respectful relationships and sexuality in young people.
According to a new report up to per cent of media articles on domestic violence blame the victim.
These domestic violence stories are told by real victims of abuse that Safe Horizon helped.
All names of victims children and abusers in these domestic violence stories have been changed to protect their privacy. Images used are only representations of Safe Horizons clients.
If you would like to help save victims of domestic violence and the traumatized children who witness abuse you can donate to support Safe Horizon and our domestic violence programs.
Each donation to Safe Horizon helps the give more than children adults and families affected by violence and abuse the tools and resources they need to heal and recover every year.
If youre experiencing domestic violence and need help you can call our domestic violence hotline atHOPE If youre outside NYC callSAFE .
On Monday in the case of Voisine v. the United States the United States Supreme Courthanded down a decision that prohibits people convicted of domestic violence from possessing guns in a vote according to SCOTUSblog.
SCOTUS holds that domestic violence conviction is misdemeanor crime of violence for purposes of limiting access to firearms
This was the case of two Maine men who were convicted on state domestic violence charges and then found with firearms and charged with violating a federal law that prohibits domestic abusers from having firearms SCOTUSblogs Amy Howe wrote in the live blog. The question was whether their convictions qualified under the statute.
This decision follows this monthsmass shootingin Orlando LGBTQ nightclub Pulse which claimed the lives of victims and injured . In the wake of the tragedy Sen. Chris Murphy DConn. held ahour filibusterand Rep. John Lewis DGa. led asitin in the House of Representatives both calling for action on gun regulations.
In February the Voisine v. the United States case moved Justice Clarence Thomas famously silent to ask his first question during oral arguments in years. At the time he asked U.S.Assistant to the Solicitor GeneralIlana Eisenstein whether recklessness is reason enough to warrant a lifetime ban on possession of a gun which at least as of now is a constitutional right.
Thomas was one of two justices who didnt vote in favor of Mondays ruling joined by Sonia Sotomayor who dissented to the decision in part.
The caveat of recklessness played a major role in the Voisine v. the United States case. In a March SCOTUSblog post Rory Little reported that justices hotly debated whether the ordinary meaning of use of force can encompass reckless behavior and whether common law recognized reckless battery.
subject to gs prohibition because their prior convictions . could have been based on reckless rather than knowing or intentional
Ultimately six of the justices decided that recklessness especially in the case of domestic violence is far from unintentional thus blocking anyone convicted of domestic violence from possessing a gun.
A pending bill in South Carolina would require someone convicted of a domesticviolence charge to turn in his or her firearms to the county sheriff. Legislation proposed in Arizona would prohibit someone charged with domestic violence from possessing a gun while out on bail.
A measure in Missouri would add dating partners to those covered by domesticviolence laws and the gun bans that attach to them.
In all this year lawmakers in at least states have proposed legislation that would make it harder for people accused or convicted of domesticviolence charges to get or keep a firearm according to the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence which tracks state gun bills. The push comes after six states passed new gun laws in related to domestic violence including twoLouisiana and Wisconsinwith Republican governors.
The bills are part of a concerted move by guncontrol groups including Everytown for Gun Safety the group backed by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Americans for Responsible Solutions the group formed by former Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords who was shot in the head outside a supermarket near Tucson four years ago and her husband.
Guncontrol backers have largely focused on the statehouses after failing to win new federal legislation in the wake of the massacre in Newtown Conn. So far they have had mixed success.
The domesticviolence gun bills have been pushed often over the objection of gunrights groups like the National Rifle Association who say they are unnecessary and in some instances violate gunowners rights.
The focus on domestic violence an issue that reaches voters that might not otherwise engage in the battle over guns shows a strategic sophistication on the part of the guncontrol folks said Adam Winkler a Second Amendment expert and law professor at the University of California Los Angeles. Domestic violence is an emotional issue that people are willing to fight for.
This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed. FOX News Network LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed minutes. Privacy Terms FAQ
Lompoc Police Officer Matthew Hill was found eligible for a one year treatment program where he would receive counseling and enroll in a oneyear program for batterers. Hill will be back in court on December to find out if he is suitable for the program.
A Lompoc Police Officer has pled guilty to misdemeanor charges of false imprisonment and violation of a domestic violence restraining order according to the Santa Barbara County District Attorneys Office.
Matthew Hill was arrested and charged with physically assaulting his girlfriend in a Vandenberg Village home in October .
Copyright NPG of California LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed.
To complete your registration on this site please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
For a more personalized experience please supply the following optional information.
Cond Nast. All rights reservedUse of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement effective and Privacy Policy effective .Your California Privacy RightsThe material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used except with the prior written permission of Cond Nast.Ad Choices
There were incidents of domestic abuse reported every day in the last year three every hour. 
Sixtyseven people across Northern Ireland were killed by their partner expartner or a family member according to police records covering the last years. The domestic killings recorded by the PSNI between and make up per cent of all homicides during the period.
Details of the murder and manslaughter of both adults and children were published on Sunday by Detail Data a joint project between investigative news website The Detail in Belfast and the Northern Ireland Council for Voluntary Action.
It comes as the Northern Ireland Assembly continues to stall on the publication and implementation of the longawaited new Domestic and Sexual Violence and Abuse strategy.
The figures show there were incidents of domestic abuse reported to the police during the financial year.
Over a quarter per cent of the victims of known domestic abuse crimes in were male.
An interministerial group established at Stormont to address the issue of domestic violence has not met in almost three years.
Northern Ireland health minister Simon Hamilton said the new domestic abuse strategy has been endorsed by his departments top management group but added that consideration is now being given to how the strategys aims may be progressed in the exceptionally difficult financial environment we all face.
The data obtained under a Freedom of Information request shows females and males lost their lives to current or former partners or family members in the period according to PSNI records.
The death toll includes adults and children with children in the age category of to yearsold.
Omagh was the PSNI area with the most domestic homicides recorded during the year period. Nine people were murdered by partners expartners or family members this includes the six members of the McElhill family who died in a fire started by Arthur McElhill in November . He also died in the blaze.
The data states that the offender in four cases died before proceedings were taken and in one case no prosecution was directed. The detection category was blank in cases including the six McElhill deaths. Some others may still be being considered by the Public Prosecution Service.
Not all domestic abuse incidents result in the recording of a crime and a single incident can involve multiple crimes. A total of crimes were recorded in from of the reported incidents.
Unfortunately there are still incidents of domestic abuse in Northern Ireland that go unreported. Our message is Domestic abuse is wrong pick up the phone and make it stop and that is exactly what we want victims to do.
Over the last years much has been achieved which is why it is all the more disappointing to see the delay of the Northern Ireland Executive in publishing a new strategy.
Queens University Belfast is this week hosting the European Conference on Domestic Violence. The fourday event opened on Sunday.
Kathryn Torney writes for the Detail. To read Detail Datas report in full go to www.thedetail.tvdata
Helplines The PSNI can be contacted on the nonemergency number or in an emergency always call . A hour Domestic Violence and Sexual Violence helpline number can also be contacted on . 
The Womens Aid freephone helpline for the Republic of Ireland can be contacted at am to pm.
Pretrial hearing could result in Jules Thomas damages case being thrown out 
Court hears founders engaged in tactical and considered web of deceit and abuse of public money 
Christine Crowley accused of falsifying patient records at two outlets in west Cork 
There have been two very different news stories reported over the last couple of weeks in the media on the runup to Christmas which is traditionally a time when there is a rise in reported and unreported incidents of Domestic Violence.
Sally Strickland ran over her Husband after suffering years of Domestic Violence. Sally was aged and used her Car as a weapon when she drove into her Husband to whom she had been married for years. A Court heard he was found on a verge with serious head injuries
Sally admitted causing grievous bodily harm and was given an months suspended sentence and the couple are still together. The Court noted that there was a history of Domestic Violence between the couple including when in she was kicked in the head by her Husband and a further attack when she was held by the throat until she began to lose consciousness. Her defence was that she was suffering a type of post traumatic stress disorder. She had previously been charged with attempted murder for the same incident and the prosecution reduced this to causing grievous bodily harm with intent.
The second recent story concerned Lord Edward Somerset who admitted four counts of assault occasioning actual bodily harm against his Wife Caroline between and and Bristol Crown Court heard that Lord Somerset was often in drink and high on drugs at the time. A Restraining Order was granted and Somerset pleaded guilty to two further assaults which caused bruising to his Wife and assaults sustaining bruising and also admitted scratching and pulling her hair.
It was noted that the Domestic Violence had covered a period in excess of years and the attacks took place at the couples home the Badminton Estate in Gloucestershire the home of the famous horse trials.
These two different News articles show diverse issues surrounding Domestic Violence the fact that Domestic Violence knows no boundaries in terms of social class but often despite years of domestic abuse particularly in the case of Sally Strickland a survivor chooses to stay with her abuser.
Often when dealing with ongoing survivors of domestic abuse it is apparent that there is a cycle of violence which will start with an explosion of violence or an abusive period and there will then be a time of reconciliation the abuser will work very hard to persuade the survivor that he has changed and there will be no repeat episodes. There will then be the honeymoon period and a period of calm and then typically this will lead to a period of tension and then the cycle will start again in relation to an explosive and abusive episode.
This cycle is clear in the two above contrasting cases. Often it can entail years of professional support and therapy to break free from these cycles along with detailed and specific legal support.
Comments Off on Criminology Lecture Focuses on Violence Against Latina Immigrants March 
Hofstra Northwell School of Graduate Nursing and Physician Assistant Studies Wins First.
Hofstra Northwell School of Graduate Nursing and Physician Assistant Studies Wins First.
Pamela Blaies handed her daughter a pamphlet on domestic violence opening it in her hands to point out specific signs of an abusive relationship.
Look at this. Look at all this. See this This is you Pamela told yearold Amanda BlaiesRinaldi.
He had threatened to kill himself and her and her mother as well. But Amanda was certain hed never actually go that far. Especially not with the children in the house. And not just before Christmas.
She is definitely dead her husband Anthony Rinaldi then reportedly told authorities when he turned himself in. I put two to the chest and one to the head.
Actually the former Army sniper had put two bullets in his wifes chest and three in her head her mother would later learn from prosecutors. The sound of the gunshots reverberated boom boom boom boom boom up the stairs. There Amandas yearold son called over the hollers of his baby brother.
Amandas death on Dec. was one of at least domesticviolencerelated deaths in the state in . Of those involved guns.
This year two recent incidents of domestic killings that claimed five victims each each involving children have dominated the news.
The numbers are compiled by the Arizona Coalition Against Domestic Violence and include a broad range of types of incidents.
Typically any violence between people who share a residence is considered domestic violence so the number in the annual tally can include spouses girlfriends and boyfriends other relatives and even bystanders.
Domesticviolence deaths are counted when a partner or other person in the home kills or is killed. An abuser committing a murdersuicide would be considered two deaths a death is also counted if an abuser is shot during a confrontation with law enforcement.
But when someone talks about domestic violence and when experts study it the focus is on a classic pattern in which a person usually a man eventually kills his partner.
A landmark study by a team of international researchers led by Jacquelyn Campbell at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and published in the National Institute of Justice Journal compared two groups of battered women. One group consisted of who had been killed by their partners the other group consisted of who had been abused but not killed.
What the researchers pinpointed was that where a history of domestic violence exists certain other factors vastly increase the likelihood that a victim will be killed.
Battered women who have been threatened or assaulted with a gun even once are times as likely as other battered women to be murdered. Those who have been choked are times as likely to be killed a statistic that also was a force behind the July change in Arizona law that made attempted choking or strangulation a Class felony. Previously strangulation typically would had been charged as misdemeanor assault.
Other factors that can increase a victims risk are substance abuse unemployment depression abuse during pregnancy any kind of estrangement and the presence of a stepchild. For people in the field the study and the dangerassessment tool it was based on is the definitive guide for assessing risk in domesticviolence situations.
The checklist of those signs is so remarkably consistent that intake workers at domesticviolence shelters use the criteria to establish what danger a woman faces and Phoenix police officers ask similar questions when they go out on roughly domesticviolence calls every year.
It would be rare for something like this to happen with no previous record of domestic violence says Carl Mangold a licensed social worker who counseled more than men convicted of abuse in Arizona between and . He now trains others to work with offenders through the Arizona Coalition Against Domestic Violence.
There is a pattern in incidents that end fatally he says. A man becomes violent and blames the victim. She tries to resist and his abuse escalates. She attempts to end the relationship and he punishes her for her defiance.
The states most recent domesticviolence incident may have defied the patterns. Last week police said evidence indicates that James Butwin a yearold Tempe businessman and father killed his wife Yafit and their three children yearold Malissa yearold Daniel and Matthew before taking his own life.
While police said they found bullet casings in the home and guns in the vehicle and the parents were facing divorce and financial problems friends say they saw no history of violence.
They were there before May the day police say J.T. Ready shot and killed four people.
The twice courtmartialed Marine border vigilante and admitted White supremacist with a history of soured relationships killed his yearold girlfriend Lisa Mederos her daughter Amber Ambers fiance Jim Hiott and Ambers daughter Lilly who was months old. He then killed himself.
Ready kept weapons at home. And in February Lisa Mederos had called police to complain that Ready had choked her six months earlier. The report went nowhere police said because they had no probable cause for an arrest.
The warning signs were there in the case of Christina Alvarez. The yearold was shot and killed in Phoenix on May her three children in the next room.
The warning signs were there in the case of Tekesha Barnes shot outside a school event for her eighthgrade daughter May .
The warning signs were there in the case of Claudia Pascual shot in her Tucson home the day before Valentines Day.
The majority of domesticviolence cases do not turn deadly. Neil Websdale a Northern Arizona University criminology and criminaljustice professor for years has worked to document how it happens in those that do.
In addition to teaching at NAU Websdale leads the National Domestic Violence Fatality Review Initiative which he started in with a grant from the U.S. Department of Justice in the hope of preventing more deaths. Each year Arizona teams review or so cases in great detail looking for common traits among abusers and among victims working to identify where the system works and where it fails.
Almost always a history of a certain kind of abusive behavior is the first most important indicator.
Websdale has studied police reports restraining orders arrests and convictions in the kind of abuse that researchers call intimate partner terrorism or coercive control.
Coercive control is almost exclusively the domain of men. It is longterm and tyrannical abuse that includes often in addition to physical violence attacks on a womans selfworth degrading remarks and obsessive monitoring of her whereabouts and her contact with other people.
Theres a stepchild in the household. The risk increases not because of anything the child does but because his or her presence invokes jealousy over a womans prior relationship.
Shes an undocumented immigrant who may fear reaching out for help because of her status.
Its about manhood and failing to live up to prescriptions of modernday masculinity he says.
An escalation of abuse is typical just before a battered woman is killed he notes. There will be more broken bones more cracked teeth. More calls to .
In addition to an escalation of abuse there may be other changes. Maybe an abuser starts keeping a loaded gun on the nightstand or begins reading her text messages and dropping by her office to make sure shes at work.
More subtle but just as important is that the victim grows increasingly fearful and tells friends or family that things are getting worse.
There may be no outward signs. But Websdale says In her own mind if she senses things are getting worse they are. We have to be sensitive to what the victim tells us.
And while leaving an abuser is a dangerous time for any victim in these cases any emotional estrangement can also trigger a deadly attack. Such things as enrolling in college making new friends or refusing to argue anymore can trigger a deadly attack just as easily as filing for a divorce can.
Hes controlling but vulnerable Websdale says. Hes very very threatened by her moving on.
Barnes the mother killed outside her daughters eighthgrade graduation ceremony held at a nearby high school in Avondale had filed for an order of protection just four days before she was killed.
Combine escalating abuse with the presence of a gun and the risk goes even higher.
When a woman calls the Sojourner Center a domesticviolence shelter for women where the beds are always full one of the first questions she is asked is whether her abuser has access to a gun.
That question not only helps the shelter gauge necessary security measures at the shelter says Connie Phillips the centers director but also helps the woman understand how much danger she may be in. Victims often minimize the risk they face as a means of coping with abuse from day to day.
You dont even have to point it at her Phillips says. It doesnt matter if it is a handgun he fires at the range on weekends or a rifle he takes hunting. He only has to clean it in front of her put it on the bedside nightstand as she sleeps or carry it on his hip to make a point.
Some hold guns to their partners heads and pull the trigger in a tormenting Russianroulettestyle game. In years at the center Phillips has heard versions of that story hundreds of times.
He said he was sorry of course apologizing again and again. He promised it would never happen again. When he brought her home from the hospital he took good care of her. And then one day she felt the muzzle against her head again.
Amanda BlaiesRinaldi and her boys spent the weekend before she died at her mothers house. They went to a Christmas party for Amandas sister Lea whos and has Down syndrome.
That was the day Pamela tried to show Amanda the pamphlet on domestic violence. Amanda had looked away.
She told her mom everything would be fine. Anthony had moved out two months earlier into his own apartment. She was planning to file for divorce.
Im going through with it this time Mom. I really am Pamela recalls her daughter saying. But Amanda added It would be easier if there wasnt a part of me that still loved him.
I taught my daughter that she was gorgeous talented Pamela Blaies said. I told her You have everything going for you. You dont have to put up with anything from anyone and she never did.
Amanda and Anthony Rinaldi met in Naples Fla. and had known each other briefly when she found out she was pregnant in . They married while Anthony was on leave from duty as an Army sniper based in Germany.
But even during Anthonys longdistance calls from Germany the couple argued screaming back and forth. When he got out of the military Pamela says there was more screaming name calling and holes punched in walls.
In May court records in Floridas Collier County show Amanda filed for a temporary order of protection. In the petition she reported that Anthony punched through walls broke door frames and smashed glasses and potted plants. She also wrote that he told her he used prescription painkillers and steroids.
The petition was dismissed when Amanda didnt show up for a hearing. That was because she already was on her way to Arizona where her mother lived. Her twin brother Jonny Blaies agreed to move too if she would leave Anthony and packed the boys and her belongings into his truck.
Within weeks Anthony had followed and moved in with Amanda. She ran a licensed day care out of their house. He went to work for the Department of Corrections.
He knew the right things to say so she would take him back Jonny says. They split up and got back together more times than I can count.
Jonny was torn mad that his sister kept taking Anthony back and worried that it would end the way it did.
My sister was a bright beautiful woman he says. Neither he nor their mother could understand what Amanda saw in Anthony.
He was angry all the time and hardly ever smiled. He would threaten to kill himself and Amanda would beg him not to.
His life meant nothing to him because he always hated life Pamela says. He had no respect for life.
Amanda had decorated her house with posters that said Love life and Life is beautiful.
As kids the twins brought home every wounded bird and every overweight kid they saw get bullied. Amanda thought she could save Anthony Pamela says.
Anthony grew up in foster care an unstable life compared with that of his wife who had a close and loving family.
Everyone who has ever loved him has left him Amanda would explain to her mother.
When her mother called the police Pamela says Amanda would cover for Anthony fearful he would lose his job and the familys health benefits. But Amanda told a friend that if anything happened to her look for Anthony.
On Dec. Anthony took Amanda and the boys to look at Christmas lights. Pamela called Amanda afterward. She sounded happy.
But when Anthony called Pamela the next night he was furious with his wife and wanted his motherinlaw to intervene.
He told his motherinlaw that Amanda had opened a credit card in her own name so she could buy Christmas gifts. Now it was missing and she had accused Anthony of taking it. He claimed to have simply misplaced it.
But Amanda refused to talk about it any longer and turned her attention to decorating the Christmas tree. She had promised the kids in her day care that it would be done in the morning.
As Anthony yelled Pamela a psychiatric nurse talked soothingly suggesting that he head to his apartment and get a good nights sleep.
Tomorrow will be a new day. Youll be able to think clearer she remembers telling him.
Then Anthony was back on the phone. Pamela says he told her I just want to know it must have been really hard for you to raise such a stubborn daughter that you cant control.
And then Anthony told the boy to go upstairs. When he hesitated Anthony told him to run. The boy told his grandmother that he begged Please dont kill my mom. The boy ran and then he heard the shots from below.
Anthony left the house and a few minutes later he also called to report that he shot his wife. He told the dispatcher that he planned to shoot himself. Then he hung up.
The dispatcher called back and Anthony told her he was pulling up behind an Arizona Department of Public Safety officer doing a traffic stop on the side of Interstate .
Anthony approached the officer and said Youre going to want to put me in handcuffs sir according to court documents.
Police found Amandas body in the garage her purse on her shoulder and car keys near her hand.
Anthony told police that he snapped and his military training kicked in according to court records. When he was arrested he had Amandas crumpled credit card in his pocket.
He is in Maricopa County Jail charged with firstdegree murder. He has pleaded not guilty. His next court hearing is scheduled for July.
The boys miss their mother. The oldest now a secondgrader who reads books meant for sixthgraders asks How could he take my most precious possession The baby is and calls his grandmother Mommy.
They fall asleep with Grandma each boy with one hand on her for security. In the dark the older boy whispers that hes afraid his stepfather will break out of jail and hurt him.
Theres been little time to really grieve between caring for the children and preparing for the trial Pamela says. She cries every day.
It doesnt feel real. You think it cant be true but it is true. Shes never coming back Pamela says.
She hopes that other women who tell their mothers not to worry and think that it could never happen to them will learn from her daughters story and get out before its too late.
times more likely to be killed if her partner has ever tried to strangle her.
For local shelter because of domestic violence or homelessness call or .
If you are scared and need to talk or want information about getting help call the Arizona Coalition Against Domestic Violence or and the National Domestic Violence Hotline .
For temporary foster care for pets of domesticviolence victims call the Arizona Humane Society Project Safe House ext. .
You have chosen to receive our NAMEDLISTS newsletters at EMAILADDRESS. You will receive an email shortly confirming your subscription. So excited to have you
The Supreme Court has struck down Texas sweeping abortion clinic regulations delivering supporters of reproductive rights a decisive victory in what .
A new lawsuit against the TSA is accusing airport workers of physically assaulting and injuring a teenage cancer patient The Guardian reported on Saturday. The lawsuit which also names Memphis Airport officials alleges violations of the Americans With Disabilities Act and intentional infliction of emotional distress .
The owner of this website dartcenter.org has banned your access based on your browsers signature beafedcdua.
Your free trial has expired. Please register for a regular account.
There have been two very different news stories reported over the last couple of weeks in the media on the runup to Christmas which is traditionally a time when there is a rise in reported and unreported incidents of Domestic Violence.
Sally Strickland ran over her Husband after suffering years of Domestic Violence. Sally was aged and used her Car as a weapon when she drove into her Husband to whom she had been married for years. A Court heard he was found on a verge with serious head injuries
Sally admitted causing grievous bodily harm and was given an months suspended sentence and the couple are still together. The Court noted that there was a history of Domestic Violence between the couple including when in she was kicked in the head by her Husband and a further attack when she was held by the throat until she began to lose consciousness. Her defence was that she was suffering a type of post traumatic stress disorder. She had previously been charged with attempted murder for the same incident and the prosecution reduced this to causing grievous bodily harm with intent.
The second recent story concerned Lord Edward Somerset who admitted four counts of assault occasioning actual bodily harm against his Wife Caroline between and and Bristol Crown Court heard that Lord Somerset was often in drink and high on drugs at the time. A Restraining Order was granted and Somerset pleaded guilty to two further assaults which caused bruising to his Wife and assaults sustaining bruising and also admitted scratching and pulling her hair.
It was noted that the Domestic Violence had covered a period in excess of years and the attacks took place at the couples home the Badminton Estate in Gloucestershire the home of the famous horse trials.
These two different News articles show diverse issues surrounding Domestic Violence the fact that Domestic Violence knows no boundaries in terms of social class but often despite years of domestic abuse particularly in the case of Sally Strickland a survivor chooses to stay with her abuser.
Often when dealing with ongoing survivors of domestic abuse it is apparent that there is a cycle of violence which will start with an explosion of violence or an abusive period and there will then be a time of reconciliation the abuser will work very hard to persuade the survivor that he has changed and there will be no repeat episodes. There will then be the honeymoon period and a period of calm and then typically this will lead to a period of tension and then the cycle will start again in relation to an explosive and abusive episode.
This cycle is clear in the two above contrasting cases. Often it can entail years of professional support and therapy to break free from these cycles along with detailed and specific legal support.
A personal guided tour to the best scoops and stories every day in The Wall Street Journal.
WSJ editors around the world analyze the overnight economic and political events affecting global markets.
Though the NFLs handling of domestic violence scandals suggests that our society still has a long way to go when it comes to understanding domestic abuse weve made a lot of progress since years ago when doctors thought wife beating was therapeutic. An article in the issue of TIME dated years ago today Sept. highlights a mindboggling study that concludes couples stay in abusive relationships because their fighting can balance out each others mental quirks.
The periods of violent behavior by the husband the doctors observed served to release him momentarily from his anxiety about his ineffectiveness as a man while giving his wife apparent masochistic gratification and helping probably to deal with the guilt arising from the intense hostility expressed in her controlling castrating behavior.
The cash crisis at Wolverhampton City Council has worsened as the amount of cuts needed rocketed to million m more than previously thought.
The majority of violent attacks on adults involved alcohol and often took place after the traditional pub closing time analysis of the latest crime figures has shown.
Three homeless centres in Birmingham will be given a million revamp.
An up and coming comedian from the Black Country is set to follow in the footsteps of a comedy legend when he takes on one of the worlds most feared female wrestlers in a neckbreaking charity challenge.
More than residents will be hit by cuts to sheltered housing budgets across Staffordshire with bosses warning charges could rise.
Wolverhampton City Council has been accused of being unrealistic and shortsighted over plans to slash more than a quarter of a million pounds from the budget of a refuge for the victims of domestic violence.
Around cases of domestic violence against men are being reported ever year in one city.
Bishops from the Midlands remind us why Christmastime is so important.
Members of the police force are being given harrowing training to help develop their understand of crimes relating to child exploitation.
The former sweetheart of a drug dealing gunman has escaped jail after refusing to give evidence at his trial.
The number of cases heard by magistrates courts in the Black Country and Staffordshire has fallen by more than per cent in four years.
On October I was invited to a conference as part of my Princes Trust work hosted by Sentinel the public protection department of West Midlands Police.
The number of underage drinkers admitted to hospital through drink in Walsall has been its lowest in a decade despite the latest damning figures for the Black Country health bosses say.
Troubled families in Dudley will have extra cash spent on them to try and tackle problems such as antisocial behaviour crime and truancy.
A man who left his girlfriend needing hospital treatment after a drink and drugfuelled attack has been jailed for months.
A man who attacked an exgirlfriend after entering her home in the night has been sent to jail.
DCFs Division on Women DOW Office of Domestic Violence Services ODVS funds domestic violence programs and the New Jersey Coalition for Battered Women. There is at least one DCFdesignated lead domestic violence program in each of the counties that provides core services.
The New Jersey Statewide Domestic Violence Hotline provides a hour sevendayaweek confidential hotline for domestic violence victims and others seeking crisis intervention information andor referral services SAFE To find domestic violence resources by county click on the related link to view DFCPDOWs Community Program Directory. 
The Domestic Violence Liaison DVL Program is a partnership of DCF New Jersey Coalition for Battered Women and countybased domestic violence lead agencies. The DVL Program by strengthening and enhancing service coordination between New Jerseys child protection and domestic violence systems improves safety and outcomes for women and children when child abuse and domestic violence cooccur.
The Violence Against Women Certificate VAWC Program is a partnership between DCF and Rutgers University School of Social Work.VAWC complements the DVL initiative. It provides advanced practice training for staff with a demonstrated an interest in and aptitude for working with families where domestic violence is an issue and further develops DCFs capacity to employ best practice when addressing family violence.
In DCF awarded funding to Domestic Violence Lead Agencies in four counties Atlantic Middlesex Morris and Sussex to establish a Batterers Intervention Program. The lead agency in each of these counties leads batterer intervention groups for perpetrators of domesticfamily violence. Additionally each of the four domestic violence lead agencies assist with trainingcofacilitating an Intervening with Batterers training for CPP staff. This training provides child welfare staff with enhanced skills and knowledge for working with batterers and engaging fathers who commit domestic violence.
A gateway to the strategies policies programs and services delivered by the Department of Health Human Services.
Victorian government portal for older people with information about government and community services and programs.
Type a minimum of three characters then press UP or DOWN on the keyboard to navigate the autocompleted search results
Bone disorders osteoporosis muscles joint conditions back prevention and management.
Oesophagus stomach small and large intestine liver pancreas gall bladder and related disorders.
Infectious diseases childhood diseases animal to human diseases and prevention.
Mouth conditions ulcers dental procedures tooth development and problems care and prevention.
Puberty menstruation menopause infertility breasts fallopian tubes ovaries uterus vagina vulva and thrush.
Development behaviour nutrition activity wellbeing identity health safety and trauma.
Drug use overdose types of drugs gambling health effects of addiction and getting help.
Perpetrators often make excuses for their violence for example blaming alcohol or stress.
Nutrition basics life stages food safety diet and health conditions nutritional advice and vitamins and supplements.
Becoming physically active safety types of physical activity and exercise and health conditions.
Health development puberty identity risk taking school sex and sexuality and health conditions.
Find information about the broad range of services available to support you as you get older.
If you or someone you care for has an alcohol or drug problem there are services and support available to help.
Learn more about the wide range of services and support available to carers in Victoria.
Understand the kinds of support that are available to children their parents and carers in Victoria.
Disability support services are provided by a mix of government community private and nonprofit organisations.
Learn about the range of services and support that exists for people in emergency situations in Victoria.
A hospital stay can be planned or unexpected. Learn about the hospital journey from admission to discharge.
There are a mix of public and private services in place to help people living with mental illness in Victoria.
Palliative care can help maintain quality of life by providing relief to pain symptoms as well as emotional mental and spiritual support.
Learn how to plan and coordinate your own healthcare and to make the plan that best suits you.
Involving health services early and understanding your childbirth options will give you the best chance of a successful and rewarding birth experience.
Communicating with your healthcare team will help you get the best health outcome.
The following content is displayed as Tabs. Once you have activated a link navigate to the end of the list to view its associated content. The activated link is defined as Active Tab
There are many people you can talk to who can help you overcome feelings of wanting to lash out.
Family violence can have an enormous impact on the health of women and their children.
You may need outside help to resolve problems and ensure your relationship stays healthy and strong.
A clash of personalities at work is bad for business because it can affect productivity and increase absenteeism.
Teach your children to sort out minor differences themselves. tips for managing sibling rivalry.
It is normal to disagree with each other from time to time and occasional conflict is part of family life.
It might be valuable to occasionally evaluate the dynamics of your family to ensure that everyone is as happy as they could be.
Forget about gossip and build strong relationships. tips for making new friends.
It is helpful to imagine assertiveness as the middle ground between aggression and passivity.
Good communication is about the way we talk and listen and about our body language.
Workrelated stress causes an increase in sick days and absenteeism a higher turnover of staff and a drop in productivity.
The majority of working mothers are also responsible for housework and looking after children.
A clash of personalities at work is bad for business because it can affect productivity and increase absenteeism.
A family breakup may be even harder for children if they have to move house as a result.
Separating parents can help children by giving them honest explanations and emotional support.
Traditional strategies for escaping abuse are often of little use to a woman who has restricted mobility or who depends on her abuser for care.
There are many people you can talk to who can help you overcome feelings of wanting to lash out.
You may need outside help to resolve problems and ensure your relationship stays healthy and strong.
Women with disabilities are more vulnerable to abuse and are more likely to experience violence.
Children exposed to domestic violence are more likely to experience emotional and behavioural problems.
Content on this website is provided for education and information purposes only. Information about a therapy service product or treatment does not imply endorsement and is not intended to replace advice from your doctor or other registered health professional. Content has been prepared for Victorian residents and wider Australian audiences and was accurate at the time of publication. Readers should note that over time currency and completeness of the information may change. All users are urged to always seek advice from a registered health care professional for diagnosis and answers to their medical questions. 
RESPECT is a national sexual assault domestic and family violence counselling service that is available hours a day days a week.Call toll free .
Type a minimum of three characters then press UP or DOWN on the keyboard to navigate the autocompleted search results
Anytime anywhere access to Australias most trusted and reliable health information.
This web site is managed and authorised by the Department of Health Human Services State Government of Victoria Australia
Between July and July more than people seeking shelter in domestic violence shelters were turned away due to lack of space. 
Lawmakers will wrestle with the question of whether domestic violence victims should get insurance payouts when their spouse destroys property next session.
Gov. Mike Pence announced changes at the Bureau of Motor Vehicles this week while applications poured in for the states expansion of the Healthy Indiana Plan.
Proposed legislation would provide million a year in the next twoyear state budget for domestic violence prevention and treatment programs.
The Houses efforts will include charitable donations weekly education and awareness efforts and potential legislative action.
Domestic violence prevention advocates say funding issues are interfering with progress. 
Indianas first lady Karen Pence is supporting Verizons HopeLine program which distributes refurbished cell phones to domestic violence victims.
Domestic violence prevention advocates say a controversy over possible funding cuts illustrates a need for better communication and adherence to timelines.
Domestic violence shelters in Indiana are already receiving new funds from the states Criminal Justice Institute.
Domestic violence prevention groups feared the state would reduce their funding by million.
Indiana Public Media is the home of WFIU Public Radio WTIU Public Television including your favorite programming from NPR and PBS. Learn More 
