Medical Discovery News is a weekly radio show produced by Dr. David Niesel from The University of Texas Medical Branch and Dr. Norbert Herzog from the Frank J. Netter School of Medicine Quinnipiac University to help people understand the excitement and importance of advances in biomedical science which is the future of medicine. Each episode is designed to stimulate listeners to think question and appreciate how science affects their health as well as that of the rest of the world. We bridge the world of medical discovery and history for people to better their lives.
You are likely to have heard Americans are getting fatter. Eating fast and processed foods and a sedentary lifestyle are likely contributors. Today almost of Americans are overweight and this is a public health disaster. Officials in New York City sounded the alarm and intervened by banning trans fats but that is hardly enough. It is recognized that there are many other causes. By definition you are considered obese if your body mass index is over . Another prevalent health issue in the US is problems with sleeping. Almost million people have sleep apnea and about one third of Americans are not getting enough sleep. There is also a high association between sleep disorders and being overweight. But did you know that almost of overweight adults report sleep problems A study followed women for years and found that those sleeping less than hours a night had a greater chance of gaining lbs or more over that time. How is that for a correlation 
Sleep deprivation has many effects including increasing irritability memory issues reduced immune function risk of heart disease diabetes and obesity. The connection between obesity and sleep has been reported many times. Predictably sleepy people are apt to not exercise regularly. Reduced activity with even consistent caloric intake can pile on the pounds. On top of this our bodies own metabolism works against us. 
Hormonal changes are induced during sleep deprivation. The so called hunger hormones leptin and ghrelin are appetite stimulating hormones whose levels are altered in sleepdeprived individuals. So when you are tired the signals are interpreted as being hungry and you eat It turns out that hunger and sleep induced fatigue alters the physiology of humans similarly. 
Our brains also make a chemical called endocannabinoid arachidonoylglycerol or AG. You might have guessed it is chemically related to the active chemical in marijuana and has some of the same effects. It is likely that the cause of the hunger arising from limited sleep is similar to the munchies from smoking pot. AG is associated with pleasure and appetite and is elevated in those that are sleep deprived stimulating the brains reward system. Researchers found that restricting sleep from eight and one half to four and one half hours led to the consumption of an extra calories in the form of fatty rewarding snacks during the evening. These results provide obvious implications for weight gain from sleep deprivation. Hunger correlates with AG levels observed in the blood. Sleep deprived individuals had levels of AG that were one third higher than those with a full nights sleep. For those sleeping normally AG builds during the day peaking in the early afternoon while those with limited sleep maintained high levels of AG well into the evening. Therefore AG maybe a new target for therapy to prevent weight gain. 
There is also hope in taking advantage of this connection between weight and sleep behavior. If you can achieve more normal sleep this may help you with weight loss and vice versa. 
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
We have featured several episodes about the Iceman tzi who lived years ago but whose remains were found by hikers in the Italian Alps in . Studies of his mummified remains have revealed much about his life during the Copper Age between and BCE. Now we report not on tzi himself but on his stomach bacteria which tells us about his life and the history of human geography. 
Heliobacter pylori or H. pylori found in tzis stomach infects two thirds of the worlds population. This bacterium is thought to have become associated with humans at least years ago. As humans spread to different locations around the world and often formed isolated communities different strains of H. pylori arose. By analyzing the genetic information of these bacteria in different human populations scientists gain insight into how these ancient humans might have traveled and intermingled. These bacteria are only passed between people through intimate contact therefore its distribution is limited to the isolated population. So looking at the genome of tzis H. Pylori we can get an idea of the people he had interacted with. It was a difficult task to separate out the genetic information from a single type of bacteria among all the genetic information in the Icemans body. Scientists managed to pull out his H. pylori DNA bit by bit and compared its sequences to those of modern strains. The modern European H. pylori strain is actually a combination of an Asian and an African strain meaning that sometime in the past those two populations came together but where and when is unknown. So tzis H. pylori could tell us which strains existed in Europeans during the Copper Age. 
The DNA sequence of tzis H. pylori revealed that it was almost purely Asia in origin despite his never having left Southern Europe. Only . of its genetic information was of African origin suggesting it was likely in Europe for quite some time. This data suggests that there were not waves of migration from Africa but it is unclear who brought the bacteria from Africa into Europe. It is theorized that the mixing to create the modern stain of H. pylori had to have occurred after the Copper Age which is much later than previously estimated. The speculation is that the African strain came to Europe via the Middle East but earlier than years ago. It may have been the first farmers who brought the agricultural revolution from the Middle East to Europe and brought their strain of H. pylori as well. Of course these are conclusions based on the sequence of H. pylori obtained from a single individual. Scientists will need sequences from many more ancient peoples to understand how they moved around and intermingled. Our ability to isolate and sequence the DNA of ancient mummies and their microbiomes from around the world will provide much more insight into the human populations and how they migrated. Who would have thought that we could use a bacterium to further our understanding of ancient human migration. 
Medical Discovery News is a weekly radio and print broadcast highlighting medical and scientific breakthroughs hosted by professor emeritus Norbert Herzog and professor David Niesel biomedical scientists at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston. Learn more at.
Every now and then things go right really really right. In an immunotherapy clinical trial of the leukemia patients went into sustained remissions which is a whopping percent success rate
Acute lymphocytic leukemia or ALL is a cancer that arises in the bone marrow the soft center of flat bones. In the bone marrow blood stem cells give rise to all blood cells. ALL arises from the cells that become lymphocytes a type of white blood cell. Acute in the name means that it can progress quickly and if not treated can be fatal within a few months. If the ALL cancer cells occupy more than of the bone marrow the disease is called leukemia. 
Lymphocytes are a major part of the immune system found in lymphoid tissues as well as circulating in the blood. Lymphocytes come from immature cells called lymphoblasts and mature into main types of cells B cells and T cells. T cells serve a variety of functions from orchestrating the immune response to an invader to killing infected cells or killing microbes directly. ALL does not form masses but rather takes over the bone marrow and spreads to the lymph nodes spleen and liver. The prognosis for ALL depends on age the younger you are the better. Prognosis also depends on the numbers of cancer cells abnormalities the tumor DNA and how quickly the leukemia responds to treatment. Treatment usually involves chemotherapy targeted therapy or stem cell transplants and can last about years. About percent of adult patients have complete remissions but about half relapse giving an overall cure rate of about percent. 
The study with the percent response rate involved patients whose other treatments had failed and they had only a few months to live. Scientists isolated what are called killer Tcells from the patients. These cells can attack and kill cancers cells. The researchers engineered these T cells to target the patients ALL cells. They genetically engineered the T cells with synthetic molecules called chimeric antigen receptors or CARs that enable them to target and destroy tumor cells. Cells were expanded and then infused into the patients. More than ninety percent of the patients achieved remission of their cancers within days however developed a severe immune response that required time in intensive care and an additional patients died. Adjusting T cell dosages infused eliminated these unwanted effects. Unlike other treatments the T cells will continue to grow and provide ongoing protection. These results from patients with such advanced stages of ALL is impressive. This is a relatively new type of approach called immunotherapy by which our bodys own immune system is programmed to attack a cancer. An advantage of this type of therapy is that it is likely to have fewer side effects and would have long lasting cancerkilling abilities should cancer cells arise later. For those patients that relapse or for whom conventional treatments fail this approach provides new hope. So stay tuned we will undoubtedly be hearing much more about immunotherapy in the future and the future looks pretty good already. 
Medical Discovery News is a weekly radio and print broadcast highlighting medical and scientific breakthroughs hosted by professor emeritus Norbert Herzog and professor David Niesel biomedical scientists at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston. Learn more at.
Since ancient times compounds containing mercury have been used in the treatment of skin diseases and other ailments. However mercury toxicity was not fully appreciated until March when two British ships the HMS Triumph and HMS Phipps came to the rescue of a Spanish ship that had been damaged in a hurricane. They rescued the crews and transferred the valuable cargo of mercury. Within weeks the crews began to experience the effects of mercury poisoning eventually many were hospitalized and some died.
Mercury was known to ancient peoples and was even found adorning a th century BCE ceremonial cup in an Egyptian tomb. Aristotle authored the earliest record of what he called fluid silver or quicksilver in the th Century BCE. Mercuric chloride calomel was used as an antiseptic to kill bacteria while mercuric sulfide is used to make the bright red vermillion paint. Mercury was also commonly used in batteries fluorescent lights thermometers barometers and felt production leading to dementia in those workers and the phrase mad hatters coined by Lewis Carroll in Alice in Wonderland. Mercury has been used to extract gold and silver by a process of amalgamation. The Spanish ship was transporting mercury to South America for the extraction of silver. On March th some of the mercury was transferred into the sloop HMS Phipps. The cargo had been saturated with water leading to rotting containers with several tons of mercury leaking into the lower decks and holds of both ships. 
Mercury quickly contaminated everything on the lower decks. Within weeks mercury poisoning appeared among the crews. Symptoms of mercury poisoning were excessive saliva secretion mouth ulcerations and partial paralysis as well as lung and bowel complaints. At an estimated temperature below decks of degrees F the saturation point of mercury would have been times the maximum allowable concentration. Those with the highest exposure some of whom later died suffered from dramatic swelling of their heads and tongues lost their teeth and suffered from gangrene of the face and tongue. By midApril men one third of the crew showed signs of mercury poisoning. On April nd the men were transferred to hospital ships and the Triumph was inspected by four fleet surgeons. The Triumph was a large gun ship of the line. The very different structure of the sloop HMS Phipps lessened the impact of mercury on board though some of her sailors were also affected. The Triumph was cleaned and returned to service in June only to have fresh cases of mercury poisoning appear. By June th she was ordered to sail home to England which took days and despite numerous precautions additional men became ill but the symptoms were not as severe. The Triumph was emptied and little is known about her fate other than she became a quarantine ship before being broken up in . Though poisoning with mercury was known accidental poisoning by mercury vapor was rare and the incident on the Triumph is unique in the history of toxicology. It gave everyone a fuller appreciation for the dangers of mercury poisoning. 
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
Parents worry if their children are getting a good diet that will allow them to grow up healthy and strong. It came as somewhat of a shock when parents of a toddler in Spain were told their child was suffering from scurvy a lack of vitamin C. After all wasnt scurvy what plagued sailors of old It could not be the case in modern Spain. 
The pregnancy was uneventful and his birth weight was a respectable . pounds. He received the recommended vaccinations and for the first two and a half months of life was fed a cows milk based formula in lieu of human breast milk. He developed a rash and his diet was changed to an almond based formula. Beginning at about six months the mother tried to introduce pureed fruits and vegetables but they were refused. From two and a half to months the toddler only ate a mixture of almond milk and other grains with some added probiotics. At seven months he could sit with support but one month later he was less stable sitting. Though he continued to grow longer his weight gain plateaued and declined by months. He appeared fairly healthy but irritable and could not support his legs on a solid surface and cried when his legs were moved passively. 
Leg Xrays showed signs of bone density loss called osteopenia thinning of bone and other features linked with changes associated with scurvy as well as a fracture of his right leg. He also had numerous abnormalities in his blood work including extraordinary low levels of vitamins C and D. These results along with his nutritional history pointed to a diagnosis of infantile scurvy. 
Scurvy is caused by a lack of vitamin C in the diet and results in defects in the protein collagen which is found in bones muscles skin and tendons which provides structural support and strength. Vitamin C is also required for the growth and maintenance of bones. Scurvy leads to general weakness anemia gum disease and hemorrhages in the skin. Humans cannot make vitamin C therefore it must be acquired in the diet from fruits vegetables or vitamin supplements. Bone growth is particularly rapid during the first two years of life then continues in spurts until the late teens or early twenties. The fact that this child was not receiving sufficient amounts of vitamin C and D meant that his bones could not form properly and became thin and brittle. An analysis of the toddlers diet revealed that his diet was also low in calcium iron and zinc. Plant based infant formulas have become increasingly popular in developed countries in recent years. The toddler was placed on vitamin C replacement therapy with mgday. In the next three months his condition rapidly improved with less leg pain and fewer radiological findings in his bones. The vitamin C levels returned to normal and he started to walk much to his parents relief. This could have been avoided by breast feeding which carries with it many other benefits.
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
There are many pros and cons for a woman when choosing either a caesarian Csection or natural birth. Sometimes medical circumstances push the mother and her physician to a Csection. For example when a mothers life is threatened or complications such as high blood pressure or gestational diabetes develop this decision is favored. Mothers can also choose Csection if they want to plan the delivery or because of a previous Csection. Overall about one third of births in the US are by Csection. Many studies have addressed Csection birth influences on the babys health and development. Reports have linked Csection births to later obesity Type I diabetes in adolescents and early breathing difficulties and even asthma. 
Scientists have been asking what is different during Csection birth that could explain these health alterations in the developing individual. We know that natural childbirth is stressful to the baby which is different from low stress surgical removal from the uterus during Csection. Previous studies have shown that the methylation patterns in the DNA of infants born by natural versus Csection are distinctly different. These changes altered regions of the genome that determine immune function our ability to resist disease and protect our bodies. Recently a study compared the microbiome of babies born by Csection and natural birth. And not surprisingly they are different. Our microbiome is the total population of microbes that live in us and on us and outnumber our own cells by more than to times. It makes you ask who is hosting who We derive many benefits from our microbial cohabitants. They provide a first line of defense against invading diseasecausing microbes contributing to something called our innate immunity. They also have been shown to broadly affect our metabolism linked to the onset of diabetes and can even affect our brains by influencing emotion and behavior. 
An infant born vaginally is exposed to the bacterial populations in the birth canal the vaginal microbiome. Babies born by Csection are not exposed to these microbial communities and acquire a microbiome that is more like the bacteria present on the mothers skin. 
In a recent study eighteen expectant mothers who were planning to have Csection deliveries participated. Four mothers agreed to have their babies exposed to their vaginal microbiome after birth. To accomplish this exposure to the vaginal microbiome a sterile gauze pad was placed in the mothers vagina for one hour and used to rub the babys mouth face and body transferring the microbiome populations to the baby. The babies bacterial populations on their skin mouth arm foot and anus area were closely monitored for their first thirty days of life. The results showed that the swabbed babies developed microbiomes that closely resembled those of vaginally born babies rather than the one of babies born by Csection and not exposed to the vaginal microbiome. 
It will be interesting to follow these babies and those from future studies to see if this exposure to the vaginal microbiome alters their health outcomes.
Medical Discovery News is a weekly radio and print broadcast highlighting medical and scientific breakthroughs hosted by professor emeritus Norbert Herzog and professor David Niesel biomedical scientists at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston. Learn more at.
By Drs. David Niesel and Norbert Herzog An international trial was recently published revealing the outcomes for patients with relapsingremitting multiple sclerosis who received blood stem cell transplantation. Excitingly these stem cell transplants were associated with substantial improvements in neurological symptoms and other clinical outcomes of MS. While these are preliminary findings they are nonetheless exciting. MS is a disease in which a persons own immune system attacks the myelin sheath that covers nerves. This reduces the ability of nerves in your brain to efficiently communicate with your muscles. Myelin is a wrapping made of lipids or fats and proteins that serve to insulate and protect nerves much like the plastic covering of electrical wires. Myelin also serves to greatly increase the speed by which nerves signals are transmitted. Myelin is present in both the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system. In MS only the myelin in the CNS is affected. The damage in MS can also lead to damage of the nerves eventually leading to scarring and issues with nerve conduction. If this process is not stopped it can lead to permanent neurodegeneration. 
Symptoms of MS vary for each individual and over time. Symptoms can include fatigue numbness or tingling weakness dizziness pain difficulties walking spasticity vision and bladder problems among many others. These primary symptoms can advance to more severe secondary and tertiary symptoms. This is an incurable disease that can leave a person unable to walk and perform other routine tasks. 
Current treatments include strategies to manage relapses or attacks and the symptoms. So the thought was if the immune system in an MS patient could be rebooted to the state before it began to attack the myelin then the symptoms of MS would disappear. This technology has been used for many years in the treatment of blood cancers. The treatment is called autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant. The rogue immune system is first destroyed using chemotherapy. The immune system is then replaced using stem cells from the patients own blood. These cells are very immature and have not yet learned to attack the myelin and therefore could still protect these patients from infections but no longer damage the myelin and stop and perhaps even reverse the effects of MS. Indeed several MS patients who received transplants have gone from being wheel chair bound to once again walking and regaining other functions of normal living. For some patients the improvements have persisted for at least four years another encouraging fact. Right now physicians categorize these recoveries from MS as dormant MS and it remains to be seen if they are permanent. 
Of course cost to benefit analysis cannot be ignored. The approximate onetime cost of a transplant is about equal to the cost of care for some MS patients per year. That makes the math easy if this works and is a cure the cost is well worth it. Even if these transplants cannot be used to treat all forms of MS at least some of MS patients have hope of a permanent solution to their symptoms. Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
By Drs. David Niesel and Norbert Herzog Medical Discovery News In the past several years we have heard a lot about infectious microbes threatening the public health of all Americans. Some of the names of these agents seemed foreign at first but are familiar now Ebola MERS and Zika. But are these really new viruses causing disease No we have known about these microbes as disease threats in Africa the Middle East and Central and South America for some time we have known about Zika since the s. A better way to describe these viruses is as emerging infectious diseases viruses that used to be limited to small geographic foreign areas that now threaten to spread across the globe. And lets not forget the microbes that have plagued us for years like the flu. We are being assaulted from all directions. 
Standing between us and infectious microbes is our public health infrastructure that protects all Americans from infectious disease threats. A recent report by the Trust for Americas Health and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation raises concerns for our ability to prevent detect diagnose respond and prevent infectious diseases outbreaks. They report more than half of US states scored or lower out of on key indicators related to managing infectious diseases. Some of these key indicators are public health funding flu vaccination rates HIV surveillance childhood immunization rates food safety central line associated bloodstream hospitalacquired infections and the staffing and training activities of our state public health labs. 
Here are some examples of the concerns raised by the report. For central line associated bloodstream infections only states reduced the standard infection rate associated with this procedure. Only states met the target for childhood immunization. Eleven states failed to meet national performance standards for testing for the food illness caused by E. coli O. Finally states failed to increase or even maintain public health funding over the past two years. 
The scorecard in this report rates each state by how many of the key public health indicators are met. No state met every recommended indicator but those at the top were Delaware Kentucky Maine New York and Virginia who met of the criteria. At the bottom meeting just of criteria were Idaho Utah Kansas Michigan Ohio Oklahoma and Oregon. In total states failed to reach the midpoint achieving of the indicators. This is shocking and could represent a prescription for future public health disasters. Go to www.healthyamericans.org to view the scorecard and see how your state is doing. 
This extensive and illuminating report makes numerous recommendations to improve our public health preparedness to handle these infectious disease threats.
Remember most infectious diseases are preventable. The reality remains that it will be less costly to take steps now to prevent detect and limit infectious diseases than to treat people after acquiring one especially after a major outbreak. The old adage by Ben Franklin an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure comes into play once again. Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
Bacteria and viruses live on and in us as part of our normal flora or microbiome. In fact microbes outnumber our own cells by to to . But there are even more creatures that we share our lives with parasites and vermin.
Studies of these creatures are actually quite revealing about human evolution and migration. For example all of us harbor a mite that lives in the hair follicles on our faces called Demodex folliculorum. They are tubular in shape with iddy biddy legs and live deep in our follicles. Somewhere between of people are colonized with them and this infestation is only rarely associated with a disease. Scientists collected mites from the faces people of different origins most from the US. They sequenced mitochondrial DNA from these mites. Since these mites are only shared between sexual partners or close family members they can help determine where people came from. People from different continents harbor different varieties of mites on their faces. The type of mites that people carry remain the same even long after they have traveled to another geographical region and even generations later. As ancient humans left Africa and moved to other areas of the earth and became isolated populations mites coevolved along with them. So the type of mite you carry can help to identify your origins.
Another group of scientists are studying the tapeworms that infest mammals as a way to determine when ancient humans began to eat meat. It has been assumed that humans acquired tapeworms when they domesticated cows and pigs some years ago and consumed undercooked meat which allowed the tapeworms to survive. However the three types of tapeworm that currently infect humans are most like those that live in lions and hyenas. So humans acquired these parasites long before the domestication of mammals when they ate the same animals consumed by lions and hyenas. That moves ancient humans carnivorous origins back to the Pliocene and Pleistocene epochs between . and . million years ago.
Getting evidence about when our human ancestors lost their fur and began wearing clothes made from animal furs would have been impossible except for the lowly louse. Some million years ago our human ancestors acquired head lice from chimpanzees. Then about million years ago ancient humans were colonized with pubic lice that came from gorillas suggesting that by that time the hair of the head and of groin were no longer connected by fur making them separate environments. Head lice genetics reveals evidence of a population expansion out of Africa about years ago which mirrors human migration. Though modern humans have a relatively limited mitochondrial DNA variability going back to a common ancestor within years lice have very different lineages that converge on a common ancestor million years ago. So they have been around a great deal longer than their human hosts. Analysis of the DNA from pubic lice revealed that they diverged from head lice between and years ago and clothing is likely to have helped to isolate the two populations. We are unlikely to ever know for sure if this estimate is accurate but it is interesting to speculate when these features of our lives arose. So we have been making fashion statements at least that long.
The multitude of organisms that live on us and in us have been shown to be important in keeping us healthy and defending us against the many pathogens to which we are exposed. They also are helping us learn more about ourselves our origins and our travels. 
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
When surgeons remove a cancerous tumor their goal is to remove all of it. But determining which cells are cancerous and which are healthy is tough. A pathologists job is to quickly examine the excised tissue to determine whether all of the tumor has been removed. Sometimes despite a medical teams best efforts later MRI and CT scans reveal that cancer cells have been left along the margins. As a solution scientists are looking for ways to light up cancer cells so that surgeons can see them more easily during an operation.
Scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology invented a blue fluorescent dye called LUM. They injected the dye into breast cancer patients at the Duke University School of Medicine before surgery. The doctors were able to successfully remove the tumors in each of these women and none of them experienced any adverse reactions. 
The dye LUM works because it is cut by a protease enzyme called cathepsins. In normal cells cathepsins job is to cut and degrade proteins. However in many tumors cathepsins are made in higher amounts and are sometimes secreted by cells. Once secreted these cathepsins rest on the surface of cell and then serve as a marker to identify tumor cells. 
These extra cathepsins also begin to digest the extracellular matrix or ECM. The ECM is a mesh of molecules that holds cells in place. Once the ECM is gone cells lose their ability to stay in one place and start migrating into the surrounding tissue a hallmark behavior of cancer cells. In fact one of stages of cancer is called metastasis which happens when cancer spreads to other parts of the body.
When these extra cathepsins on tumor cells cut LUM the dye causes them to light up blue. A surgeon can see this blue luminescence when a handheld imaging device is held over the area. In experiments with mice the tumor tissue with LUM glowed five times more brightly than normal tissue making even small amounts of tumor easy to spot. 
About percent of cancer surgeries require a second surgery. This is because the tumor removal did not result in sufficient margins around the tumor free of cancer cells. Since the goal of every cancer surgery is to remove all of the tumor LUM could help ensure this. It is the first proteaseactivated dye for cancer detection during surgery that has been tested for safety and effectiveness in humans. So far it seems to be working as everyone had hoped. The goal is to test the dye in more patients and at additional hospitals to determine its safety and assess its ability to aid in the removal of all tumor tissue on a larger scale. The scientists who invented LUM started a company called Lumicell. They hope to save people from the pain and cost of extra surgeries and potentially the amount of radiation therapy used to ensure that all tumor cells were eliminated the first time. Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
Some who use kratom to ease their withdrawal symptoms from heroin addiction are discovering that this is also an addictive drug that can reignite the cravings for the heroin they are trying hard to conquer. The use of kratom as a painkiller or to treat depression or for the mild high it provides is gaining in popularity but its potential dangers are not well understood.
Kratom is legal in most states and is sold under a variety of names. It is available in powdered form at head shops convenience stores and online. There are even bars that sell beverages made with kratom in Colorado Florida New York and North Carolina. Reports suggest that million Americans have purchased kratom online for the management of chronic pain or to mitigate opioid withdrawal.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration banned the importation of kratom in due to the strong suspicion that it was harmful but the laws concerning the drug are so bizarre that it was sold legally in Chicago at the same time. Although the FDA considers kratom to be a somewhat safe dietary ingredient the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration lists it as a drug of concern but not a controlled substance. Some states have banned it and the Army forbids its use by soldiers. 
Kratom comes from a tropical tree in the coffee family Mitragyna speciosa which is indigenous to Southeast Asia. The name kratom comes from the term for the tree and the preparation of its leaves in Thailand. The use of kratom has been outlawed there although now there is a movement to legalize it. Traditionally kratom leaves are chewed or used to brew tea. Low doses of it have cocainelike stimulatory effects and are used to overcome fatigue. Higher doses have opiumlike sedative effects used in traditional medicines as a substitute for opium. It is also used to treat pain diarrhea coughs and premature ejaculation. The symptoms of the drug appear minutes after consumption and can last for up to an hour. Side effects of longterm kratom use include weight loss tiredness constipation and hyperpigmentation of the cheeks. 
The active ingredients in kratom bind to the same cellular receptors as heroin or morphine but it also binds to two other receptors accounting for its different effects. And like heroin or morphine kratom produces dependence. Withdrawal symptoms are relatively mild but include craving weakness lethargy anxiety restlessness runny nose muscle pain nausea sweating jerky movements of limbs tremors sleep disturbances and hallucinations. It looks like taking kratom comes with a price of its own. 
Since some opioid addicts use kratom to overcome their addiction advocates of it state that it is useful for reducing dependence on more dangerous opiates and has the advantage of not being detected by drug tests for now. But some former opiate addicts report becoming addicted to kratom and ending up back in rehabilitation. It is both a way of overcoming addiction and an addiction itself. 
The scientific study of kratom requires more research into its physiological effects. Its one of many drugs wading through a murky legal environment and challenging law enforcements ability to keep people safe. 
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
Unless you are totally cut off from the news you have heard about the Zika virus. Maybe more than you want because this is a scary virus especially if you are pregnant. We have known about this virus for some time. It was first isolated in and has been pretty much of a scientific curiosity until recently. And then seemly we look up and there is a fullblown outbreak in Brazil that is marching steadily across South and Central America and the Caribbean. But also it has breached American shores with infected individuals now reported in several American cities. These Zika infections have originated from travelers to affected areas or those in close contact with those that have traveled in that region. Person to person spread has been shown after sexual contact and the virus can be found in infected individuals in semen salvia and in urine. 
The world is focused on this virus because of its devastating effects on the most helpless among us babies. When a pregnant women becomes infected there is a link between Zika infection and her baby being born with a small head and brain. This is called microcephaly. As you can imagine with an infection affecting the brain microcephaly leads to developmental issues with the baby and many do not survive beyond adolescence. 
While microcephaly is obvious at birth this could be the tip of the iceberg in terms of the number of children with neurological problems that will be revealed as they grow older. Adults can be infected resulting in neurological consequences also. In infected adults there is a times higher chance of developing GuillainBarre syndrome which results the immune system attacking nerves. GBS can be mild for some it can last for months and in of cases GBS can lead to death. 
Recent studies may have started to reveal how the Zika virus causes brain damage leading to the symptoms observed in babies and others. It has been shown that Zika interacts with neuroprogentior cells which are immature cells on the path to becoming glia cells or neurons two of the most important cells in the brain. In experiments percent of the neuroprogenitor cells became infected with the Zika virus and went on to produce more virus. Here is the punch line this means that two of the major cell types in the brain are susceptible to Zika infection and those infected cells are eventually killed by the virus or slowed in growth significantly. This could be the smoking gun that explains how Zika can damage the brain.
Many adults who become infected with the Zika virus dont experience symptoms and its usually mild for those that do such as joint pain fatigue and low fever which usually last two to seven days. However women who are pregnant or want to become pregnant in the near future should avoid Zikainfected areas and men whove traveled to Zikainfected area should refrain from unprotected sex. Currently there are not any treatments or vaccines for Zika so hang on we are in for a bumpy ride this summer and beyond. 
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
The future of treating genetic diseases may lie within the emerging field of molecular surgery. It may seem impossible to imagine doing surgery on such a micro level but the development of a molecular technique called genome editing can be used to correct genetic defects within cells. We are always looking for new weapons in the fight against genetic diseases which can have devastating effects. We inherit our genes from our parents and each of us has variations in the sequence of our genes that make us unique. However mutations as small as a single base these are A T C G in your DNA can lead to lifealtering diseases such as sickle cell anemia or cystic fibrosis.
In laboratories around the world new molecular tools are being developed that can be used to correct such genetic mutations and therefore provide a cure for the diseases they cause. Using molecular surgery doctors could theoretically fix the genetic defect. 
A recently developed molecular technique that enables scientists to edit genes is called CRISPRCas. CRISPR stands for Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats. These are short repetitive sequences in our genomic DNA that are spread throughout the genome. Cas is a protein that acts as molecular scissors. 
This works by creating a short piece of RNA a genetic molecule like DNA that targets a specific gene in the lab. Then the RNA and the Cas protein are introduced into cells where the RNA provides a guide to the gene to be modified then acts as a target for the cutting action of the Cas protein. This can be used to remove or more importantly in this case to replace a defective gene with a functioning one. So far experiments in the laboratory show CRISPRCas is able to repair the genetic mutation that causes sickle cell anemia and also cystic fibrosis mutations. In addition it has been used to prevent and slow the spread of HIV. This technology also has the capability to correct multiple mutations simultaneously which will be crucial to curing diseases that arise by more than one genetic mutation. The next step will be clinical trials to evaluate CRISPRCass potential to correct mutations and treat disease directly in humans. For some diseases correcting the mutation in even half of the affected cells could prevent symptoms and essentially cure the disease. 
As with any technology that provides the ability to change the human genome scientists must consider the ethics of molecular surgery seriously. For example could parents alter an embryo or childs genes so they are more athletic or have a specific eye color The range of options when changing genes is almost limitless and profound. To that end scientists from around the world have already met to start developing a system of guidelines for this type of research. It will take our scientists medical ethicists and citizens to decide the boundaries of this powerful and far reaching technology. 
CRISPRCas and other methods of molecular surgery have a profound potential to cure diseases and could alter our future health in ways we can only imagine. Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
Have you noticed in the past few years we seem to be continuously assaulted by microbial menaces Some years back it was SARS which set off a global panic. People were screened for fevers at many major international airports. Then came the West Nile virus which started from a single case in New York and in a matter of years marched across the U.S. Who can forget the avian flu or swine flu which happened around the same time More recently the MERS virus has emerged with outbreaks in the Arabian Peninsula and then whole villages in Korea. We are just now reaching the end of the devastating Ebola outbreak in West Africa. Even if youre not an alarmist its hard to ignore the threat of these new microbial menaces.
The latest is one that we are beginning to know well is Zika. While it sounds like the name of a modern Scandinavian rock band this virus was first isolated in in Uganda. It emerged in the Pacific Islands before it spread to Brazil and its rapidly spreading through two dozen countries in the Caribbean Central America and South America. Now cases of Zika have been confirmed in the U.S. and Europe in people who have recently traveled to an outbreak area where the virus is spreading. Individuals can also become infected after direct contact with someone who has just returned from one of these areas. What makes public health officials in America highly concerned about this virus is that it is spread by mosquitoes called Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus that are common in the eastern and southeastern United States. 
There is accumulating evidence that Zika infection in pregnant women leads to birth defects most notably microcephaly. This means Zika could potentially threaten thousands of unborn fetuses. The images of the babies afflicted by this disorder which causes abnormally small head sizes are heartbreaking. 
But the damage to babies born to a mother who was infected is not limited to this highly visible birth defect. There is emerging evidence that Zika can cause other neurological problems. In a recent study of fetuses from women testing positive for Zika babies showed a range of neurological problems. Seven had lesions in the central nervous system five had issues with brain development and an additional two were stillborn. The neurological lesions are devastating and lead to significant developmental issues. Mothers who become infected with Zika immediately become part of a highrisk pregnancy group. Evidence now suggests that Zika infection is associated with neurological disorders in children and adults as well.
Most adults who become infected with the Zika virus dont experience symptoms and its usually mild for those that do. They have symptoms such as joint pain fatigue and low fever which usually last two to seven days. Some adults however can develop GuillainBarr syndrome an autoimmune disorder. However women who are pregnant or want to become pregnant in the near future should avoid Zikainfected areas and men whove traveled to Zikainfected areas should refrain from unprotected sex for at least two months since the virus can be transmitted sexually. Currently there are not any treatments or vaccines for Zika so hang on we are in for a bumpy ride this summer and beyond.
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
By Drs. David Niesel and Norbert Herzog Medical Discovery News When you get sick how do you know when its safe to come into contact with other people without spreading the infection For many infections such as influenza you get sick one to four days after being exposed and you can spread the virus for an additional five to seven days after becoming sick. Now consider the importance of that timeline when it comes to a deadly virus like Ebola. The Ebola outbreak in West Africa has been declared over but we may need to rethink that conclusion.
Ebola causes an acute illness that has a high mortality rate. People become infected many die up to percent but some recover. It was thought that once you survived the infection you could not infect other people and you were immune against the virus in the future. However we have learned that once you have become infected with the Ebola virus you are not free of the virus when your symptoms disappear. The virus is not necessarily gone from your body and can reemerge. Lately a new twist in this news has significant public health implications. A Liberian woman contracted Ebola from a male sex partner who was an Ebola survivor. The couple had sex nine months after the male was first infected with Ebola and more than days after he was determined to be free of infection. Based on this clearance the couple had unprotected sex at a point beyond the threemonth waiting period currently recommended by health authorities. Molecular analysis and sequencing of the virus showed that the virus did most likely come from her male partner and not from another source. Ironically she became infected just days after the West African nation of Liberia was declared Ebolafree. Unfortunately the woman did not survive the infection. The recommended waiting period for unprotected sex has now been extended to six months after recovery. 
Recent studies found males who recovered from an Ebola infection still had the virus in their semen. No reactivation of this infection from this source have been reported yet. In additional studies semen samples from almost Ebola survivors were tested for the virus. Half the men carried the virus for up to six months and a quarter carried it for up to nine months. If there is good news it appears that sexual transmission of Ebola is rare. Fewer than cases of sexual transmission were observed from the male survivors. Still the U.S. Centers for Disease Control has recommended the testing of male survivors until two consecutive tests of semen are negative and more is understood about sexual transmission. Safe sex practices should be used during this period.
Research on Ebola has intensified since the outbreak. Now there are promising new vaccines in field and laboratory testing offering real hope that epidemics like this one will not happen again. 
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
Experts in Egyptology and snakes collaborated to determine if the story of the Egyptian Cobra or asp could have killed Cleopatra and her two attendants. The first issue is that most cobras would have been too big to smuggle into a room in a basket which is part of the legend. Cobras are usually five to six feet in size but can grow to eight feet. The second issue is whether the same snake could kill three people with consecutive bites. The snake experts claim it would be very unlikely that a cobra could be induced to bite two or three people in quick succession. Snakes are capable of biting defensively without injecting venom and in fact most bites from a cobra are dry bites when no venom is injected so the snake can conserve it for hunting and protection. In addition it appears that cobras can control the amount of venom delivered depending on the threat they face. However cobras do not exhaust their store of venom even after several strikes. 
Cobra bites can be fatal if not treated with antivenom or an artificial respirator until the paralysis of the diaphragm muscle wears off. The venom includes a neurotoxin that causes problems with swallowing vision speaking muscle weakness difficulty breathing respiratory failure vomiting and abdominal pain. Other symptoms include necrosis of tissue in and around the bite site as well as anticoagulation. It is a slow and very painful death if untreated nothing like the quick and painless death the Egyptian queen would have preferred. It seems likely that William Shakespeare and Elizabeth Taylor have framed the snake and that the real Cleopatra committed suicide by some other means such as poison. Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
Secondhand smoke from tobacco products is a complex mixture of thousands of different chemicals. Hundreds of these chemicals are toxic and at least are carcinogenic. Even brief exposure to these chemicals is not considered safe. It can lead to molecular changes that cause cancer and changes in the cells that line blood vessels and alter platelets in the blood which can increase the chances of a heart attack. An estimated . million nonsmoking Americans have died from exposure to secondhand smoke since the mids. Smoking during pregnancy is especially deadly leading to or more infant deaths annually.
We already know that secondhand smoke can have serious and longterm effects on a childs health. Exposed children are known to get sick more frequently. Children are more likely to experience wheezing and coughing and those with asthma are subject to more frequent and severe attacks which can become lifethreatening. They show a reduction in lung growth during their development and experience more bronchitis pneumonia and other respiratory and ear infections. Secondhand smoke can also lead to sudden infant death syndrome in children.
A Swedish study published last year studied how exposure to secondhand smoke in children can lead to increased risks of sensitization to food allergens and the development of food allergies. The common foods children are allergic to include cows milk eggs wheat peanuts and fish. This large study enrolled more than children who were followed from birth until they were years old. The study used periodic questionnaires to track secondhand smoke exposure and symptoms of allergic disease. This study did not include children who were exposed during pregnancy. This made it easy to determine the effects of secondhand smoke. 
Results from this study clearly showed that secondhand smoke exposure resulted in increased sensitization of children starting at age four. This sensitization to food allergens persisted into adolescence. Food allergies can have a tremendous impact on childrens lives and the health care costs associated with managing this longterm health concern are significant. 
How can you protect children from the health effects of secondhand smoke First do not smoke around your children where you live or in your car. Second do not permit anyone else to do so either. Third choose babysitters daycares and schools that are smoke free. If you suspect your child is suffering any health effects due to secondhand smoke food allergens or otherwise see your pediatrician.
It sounds logical but consider the many smokers who come in contact with a child throughout their development and the complications of creating a smokefree environment. 
Medical Discovery News is a weekly radio and print broadcast highlighting medical and scientific breakthroughs hosted by professor emeritus Norbert Herzog and professor David Niesel biomedical scientists at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston. Learn more at.
We all need light to see but now a new gene therapy is restoring sight to those with vision problems by figuratively lighting up their vision. 
Your vision cannot process anything without light. When light comes in contact with the cornea the transparent outer layer of the eye it bends the rays that pass through the pupil the dark circle in the center of the eye. The purpose of the iris the colored part of the eye is to make the pupil bigger or smaller to let in enough but not too much light like a camera. 
Behind the pupil is a lens that focuses the light on the retina in the back of the eye. The retina is composed of millions of cells some called rods and cones for their distinctive shapes whose purpose is to sense light. The cones provide sharp vision fine details and clear colors. The rods provide the peripheral vision vision in dim light and the ability to see motion.
The retina converts the light entering the eye into electrical impulses and sends those to the brain through the optic nerve. The brain then deciphers the electrical signals into an image we can process.
Many different diseases can affect sight from concussions and other brain injuries to diabetes. Lifestyle choices such as how much or how little your eyes are exposed to the sun also affect eye health. 
Of course our genes can play a role in how strong or poor sight is as well. Take for example retinal pigmentosa RP a group of rare genetic disorders where certain genes that encode instructions for proteins are mutated. When these proteins malfunction the rods and cones in the retina are slowly lost and with them the ability to detect light. Scientists created a gene therapy that can restore the loss of light receiving cells in those with RP by targeting a gene called RPE. 
The protein this gene encodes is involved in the visual cycle which is triggered by light entering the eye. The cycle begins when a molecule similar to vitamin A is converted to another molecule called alltrans retinal. This conversion tells the eye to send electrical signals to the brain but for us to continue to see the RPE protein has to convert the alltrans retinal back into the vitaminA like molecule. Then it is ready to go again. 
This cycle does not happen when the protein malfunctions so the new therapy targets the protein by using an engineered virus called AAV. Its engineered to carry the normal form of the RPE gene. The engineered viruses are surgically introduced into the eye where they infect cells and begin making normal RPE proteins to correct the defect. In a clinical trial involving people all showed improved sensitivity to light. Some nearly blind patients had restored sight even three years after the therapy. 
The treatment may be approved this year but many people wont be able to afford the cost. Still were excited this gene therapy works and this approach could benefit other genetic vision disorders.
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
By Drs. David Niesel and Norbert Herzog Medical Discovery News The rise of antibioticresistant bacteria is reaching epidemic proportions and if new antibiotics arent created to combat even common bacterial infections we may find ourselves without the ability to combat even the common illnesses. Can you imagine going back to the dark ages before penicillin 
While firstworld countries use the most antibiotics a new report reveals that antibiotic use in second and thirdworld countries is steadily increasing. While this may be good in terms of treating and preventing diseases it has some serious consequences for the global threat of antibiotic resistance. As researchers wrote in a recent report When it comes to antibiotic resistance the rich pay with their wallets and the poor pay with their lives. 
The use of antibiotics grew by an astounding percent from and according to the report Antibiotic use drives antibiotic resistance. The countries with the biggest increases in antibiotic use were India and South Africa. You can track antibiotic use and resistance worldwide on the Center for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policys website. Three dangerous antibioticresistant bacteria commonly called superbugs to public health are E. coli Klebsiella pneumoniae and Staphylococcus aureus. Between and the incidence of multiple drug resistance in Klebsiella doubled. Doctors in India are using an antibiotic of last resort to fight Klebsiella infections.
There are multiple ways bacteria can become resistant to antibiotics. Bacteria can create new ways to function subverting antibiotics completely. They can change sites within themselves where drugs act rendering the antibiotics ineffective. They can actively pump antibiotics out to remove them. They can produce enzymes that alter or destroy drugs. Bacteria can even work together forming a dense barrier called a biofilm that prevents antibiotics from reaching them. Bacteria are always reinventing themselves and they can do so quickly.
The new report also promotes six strategies that belong in every countrys plan to control the growth of antibiotic resistance. The first is to prevent bacterial infections by improving sanitation water quality and immunization rates. The second strategy is to lower hospital infections and therefore the overuse of antibiotics by improving hygiene and surveillance and creating an antibiotic use protocol. The third is to change the incentives that lead to antibiotic overuse. There are powerful incentives for hospitals doctors communities and agriculture industries that lead to antibiotic overuse. The fourth step is to phase out the practice of using antibiotics to promote livestock growth. China the U.S. and Brazil are the biggest offenders when it comes to agricultural misuse of antibiotics totaling almost tons in . The final two recommendations are efforts to educate medical providers policy makers and citizens about responsible use of antibiotics. Public awareness campaigns political commitment and sensible guidelines can change expectations for antibiotic use.
The only way we are going to solve the spread of antibiotic resistance is with a global focus. With thousands of travelers crisscrossing the world daily the quick spread of infections is a real threat. This is problem that we all face and one we must solve together.
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at 
Behind every sip of beer you drink there are millions of years of evolution at work. Research into million years of primate evolution indicates that our ancestors evolved a markedly enhanced ability to metabolize or break down ethanol million years ago. Who knew they had happy hours back then
That doesnt mean that humans have been drinking wine and beer that long. After the first civilizations formed in the Middle East about years ago people discovered that the fermentation process preserves food. That is probably when people began experimenting with alcoholic beverages. Previously historians believed this was the first time alcohol that is specifically ethanol entered the human diet. It has been argued that alcoholism is due to the relatively short amount of time humans have been consuming ethanol which has not allowed us evolve an effective way of metabolizing and digesting it.
However the new theory suggests that early primates began eating low amounts of ethanol around million years ago when flowering plants began producing fruit. These fruits became infected with yeast that was capable of fermenting the sugars stored within. Then as primates began living on the ground below instead of in the trees they would have eaten the fruit that fell to the ground which would have been at various stages of fermentation with even higher levels of ethanol. This would have given them an evolutionary advantage over other species that could not break down ethanol.
When we digest ethanol it is absorbed in the small intestine enters the blood stream moves to the liver and is metabolized there by enzymes called alcohol dehydrogenase or ADH and aldehyde dehydrogenase. These enzymes work together to break down ethanol molecules to carbon dioxide and water. In this process ethanol is first converted to acetaldehyde a very toxic and highly reactive molecule. Some acetaldehyde enters your blood causing tissue damage. We can thank acetaldehyde for our hangovers and their symptoms. 
A small amount of alcohol is also excreted through sweat saliva urine and your breath which is how it can be detected by a breathalyzer test. Since alcohol is metabolized more slowly than it is absorbed drinking too much too quickly causes alcohol to accumulate in the body resulting in intoxication.
To determine when our ancestors developed the ability to metabolize ethanol scientists looked for a version of ADH in primates along our evolutionary tree. They looked for when there was a molecular change in the gene encoding the enzyme that made it more active against ethanol. Of the primates that evolved in the past million years only hominids and four other primates have the enzyme. This group split off million years ago which corresponds to our enhanced ability to enjoy ethanol. Even today primates with this enzyme can eat lower quality partially fermented foods unlike other primates.
We have our ancestors to blame for our attraction to alcohol. It turns out our kind has been partying for much longer than previously thought. 
Medical Discovery News is hosted by professors Norbert Herzog at Quinnipiac University and David Niesel of the University of Texas Medical Branch. Learn more at.
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more.
You are likely to have heard Americans are getting fatter. Eating fast and processed foods and a sedentary lifestyle are likely contributors. Today.
We have featured several episodes about the Iceman tzi who lived years ago but whose remains were fo.
Every now and then things go right really really right. In an immunotherapy clinical trial of the l.
Since ancient times compounds containing mercury have been used in the treatment of skin diseases and other ailments. However mercury toxicity was .
Parents worry if their children are getting a good diet that will allow them to grow up healthy and strong. I.
There are many pros and cons for a woman when choosing either a caesarian Csection or natural birth. Sometimes medical circumstances push the mother.
An international trial was recently published revealing the outcomes for patients with relapsingremittin.
In the past several years we have heard a lot about infectious microbes threatening the public health of all Americans. Some of the names of these agents seemed foreign at first but are familiar now Ebola MERS and Zika. But are these really new viruses causing disease
Bacteria and viruses live on and in us as part of our normal flora or microbiome. In.
When surgeons remove a cancerous tumor their goal is to remove all of it. But determ.
If youre lucky youll be partaking in more pumpkin spice lattes pies and eggnog t.
The scientific study of kratom requires more research into its physiological effects. Its one of many drugs wading through a murky legal environment and challenging law enforcements ability to keep people safe.
Women who are pregnant or want to become pregnant in the near future should avoid Zikainfected areas and men whove traveled to Zikainfected area should refrain from unprotected sex. Currently there are not any treatments or vaccines for Zika so hang on we are in for a bumpy ride this summer and beyond.
The future of treating genetic diseases may lie within the emerging field of molecular surgery. It may seem impossible to imagine doing surgery on such a micro level but the development of a molecular technique called genome editing can be used to correct genetic defects within cells.
Have you noticed in the past few years we seem to be continuously assaulted by microbial menaces The latest is one that we are beginning to know well is Zika.
It was thought that once you survived the infection you could not infect other people and you were immune against the virus in the future. However we have learned that once you have become infected with the Ebola virus you are not free of the virus when your symptoms disappear.
It is a slow and very painful death if untreated nothing like the quick and painless death the Egyptian queen would have preferred. It seems likely that William Shakespeare and Elizabeth Taylor have framed the snake and that the real Cleopatra committed suicide by some other means such as poison.
It sounds logical but consider the many smokers who come in contact with a child throughout their development and the complications of creating a smokefree environment.
The treatment may be approved this year but many people wont be able to afford the cost. Still were excited this gene therapy works and this approach could benefit other genetic vision disorders.
The rise of antibioticresistant bacteria is reaching epidemic proportions and if new antibiotics arent created to combat even common bacterial infections we may find ourselves without the ability to combat even the common illnesses.
Behind every sip of beer you drink there are millions of years of evolution at work. Research into million years of primate evolution indicates that our ancestors evolved a markedly enhanced ability to metabolize or break down ethanol million years ago. Who knew they had happy hours back then
Pain is so common one in three Americans report experiencing it daily. The financial cost due to pain tops more than half a trillion dollars per year. In its most elemental form pain is our bodys way of letting us know that something is not right.
Prostate cancer is the second most common cancer in men behind skin cancer. Scientis.
While we have extensively studied the role of bacteria that call our bodies home we have yet to achieve that level of understanding with viruses. In.
Have you ever heard doctors referred to as pill pushers While medical professional.
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more.
Het calls for government to remain resolute now that it has developed sound recommendations
In experimental research repeated exposure of an unfamiliar rejected vegetable during eight sessions over a period of weeks has been shown to increase the consumption and liking of a previously rejected food. Therefore encourage children to sample a wide variety of foods persevere repeated exposure will eventually result in consumption.
Market research data has suggested that children today eat far fewer meals with the family than a generation ago of todays parents consumed meals on a regular basis with their parents compared to just over of todays children. This reduction of family meals consumptions is suggested as a further contributory factor effecting childhood obesity levels.
The increase in numbers of children eating separately from parents is a consequence of our busy lifestyles specifically the large number of hours parents work a week and the increase in the proportion of women who work. This reduces the amount of time available to prepare balanced meals which has helped to drive the increase in consumption of convenience foods that have a relatively low nutrient value. This has also led to an increase in the number of children eating alone where they are more likely to consume high fat low fibre convenience foods.
Therefore the importance of eating regularly in a social setting is important both for nutrient intake and social skills. Perhaps switching the TV off during mealtimes may help to bring the conversation around to the food on the plate and hence improve interest and awareness in food.
Good guidance on what to feed children from an early age is essential so good eating patterns can be established early to foster a lifelong healthy approach to food. Its never too late to change eating habits for the better even if children in a household have already adopted unhealthy eating patterns. If parents focus on changing their own diet and family eating is adopted as the norm even if only on certain days of the week eventually at least some healthy habits will be reflected in their childrens eating patterns
It may smell nice and go on smoothly but does your sunscreen actually protect you from the sun 
Tiny water fleas customize their defenses when they sense predators in the water. 
A diminutive woman buried in a cave site in Israel years ago was likely a person of importance and was interred with great ceremony.
One of the fastest cameras in the world can now take better pictures than ever even capturing neurons as they fire according to a new study.
A man in Arizona infected with the West Nile virus became paralyzed from the waist down.
DARPA wants to protect the internet of things with machines
A giant toothy centipede with countless legs is also a swimming fiend making it the first known aquatic centipede on record. And its venomous to boot researchers found. 
Women who wear a sexy outfit in a job application photo may have a much better shot of landing an interview a new study that involved mostly male job recruiters finds. 
When the U.S. Olympic team heads to Brazil some athletes will be studied to see if they become infected with the Zika virus.
During its lifetime about million years ago a duckbilled dinosaur dwarf walked around with a tumor on its lower jaw though the unusual growth likely didnt cause any pain a new study finds.
The owner of this website globalmedicaldiscovery.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beaebfbdua.
For full functionality it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Signing up is FREE FAST and SIMPLE. Begin by entering your email address below.
Click to discover indepth conditionspecific articles written by our inhouse team.
Click to discover indepth conditionspecific articles written by our inhouse team.
Click to discover indepth conditionspecific articles written by our inhouse team.
Click to discover indepth conditionspecific articles written by our inhouse team.
Click to discover indepth conditionspecific articles written by our inhouse team.
Click to discover indepth conditionspecific articles written by our inhouse team.
Click to discover indepth conditionspecific articles written by our inhouse team.
Read our more detailed articles about specific areas of medicine conditions nutrition and forms of treatment.
All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of MediLexicon International Limited.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information.
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day every day.
All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of MediLexicon International Limited.
The owner of this website www.healthcanal.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beaefbdua.
Listen to live radio stations plus all your favorite podcasts and shows.
You can manage your Medical Savings Account to last longer like your bank account by making informed decisions on how you spend on your daytoday medical costs.
Making your money go further when it comes to medical costs is a matter of doing some research planning upfront and having a few important conversations.
Discover how to ask the right questions and get the most out of your time with your doctor.
It may smell nice and go on smoothly but does your sunscreen actually protect you from the sun 
Tiny water fleas customize their defenses when they sense predators in the water. 
A diminutive woman buried in a cave site in Israel years ago was likely a person of importance and was interred with great ceremony.
One of the fastest cameras in the world can now take better pictures than ever even capturing neurons as they fire according to a new study.
A man in Arizona infected with the West Nile virus became paralyzed from the waist down.
DARPA wants to protect the internet of things with machines
A giant toothy centipede with countless legs is also a swimming fiend making it the first known aquatic centipede on record. And its venomous to boot researchers found. 
Women who wear a sexy outfit in a job application photo may have a much better shot of landing an interview a new study that involved mostly male job recruiters finds. 
When the U.S. Olympic team heads to Brazil some athletes will be studied to see if they become infected with the Zika virus.
During its lifetime about million years ago a duckbilled dinosaur dwarf walked around with a tumor on its lower jaw though the unusual growth likely didnt cause any pain a new study finds.
The owner of this website globalmedicaldiscovery.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beacbfdbua.
It Is Unintentional Chronic Dehydration That Causes Pain and Disease Including Cancer In The Body 
My groundbreaking medical discovery reveals the missing natural element that prevents even cures the bodys painful degenerative diseases naturally and at no cost
I am honored and proud to inform you that my research over years in addition to my medical training and subsequent years as a doctor has exposed the simplest natural cure to a vast number of health problems.
What you are going to find out may at first sound too good to be true This newly uncovered ultimate cure is so simple you will wonder why it has not been discovered until now But I will prove every word you are about to read. I will also tell you why I think the drug industry has concealed this information when asking trusting physicians to prescribe its medications.
What you will discover in this letter is that we in medicine are trained to use chemicals to treat pain and disease when all the body needs is water a simple and abundantly available natural element. 
This is the reason why we in medicine have made so many deadly mistakes We are routinely treating symptoms signs and complications of drought in the body with toxic chemicals that kill more rapidly than the dehydration itself
Who in hisher right mind would want to take toxic chemicals when all that their body needs is water free water natural water the ultimate medication of choice to cure pain and prevent disease
The commercial sickcare system and the drug industry do not want you to know that in most health problems you are only thirsty and not sick
They survive and thrive if we remain ignorant of the knowledge of the different ways our bodies show we are thirsty that we are suffering from local or regional drought. When there is shortage of water some parts of the body are forced to go without water. In this report you will get to know how the droughtstricken parts reflect dehydration and how you can recognize that you are truly thirsty. You will recognize why dry mouth is not a sign of thirst but why different pains are
The fundamentals of the information you have in your hands have been scientifically peerreviewed and presented at different national and international medical conferences and published in scientific journals. You are receiving this information directly because the AMA and The National Institutes of Health that you fund with your tax dollars and believe they are working for you have so far refused to tell the American people they were wrong in their past assumptions about the cause of pain and disease in the human body.
Now that I am at it and before we get into the meat of this report let me first give you some background information and then tell you a true story that will dispel any illusions you may have had about the drug companies being on your side
As you will learn I have the scientific distinction of having successfully treated with only water over people suffering from peptic ulcer disease. My report of this event was published as the main editorial of the Journal of Clinical Gastroenterology in June and also reported in the SCIENCE WATCH Science Times of the New York Times Tuesday June .
To me as a clinician it became obvious that these people were suffering from a thirst problem and the label of disease is something we have concocted because we have not understood that pain and local damage can be one of the ways that persistent drought in the body shows itself.
One day at a meeting held in the office of Professor Howard Spiro of Yale University I made this view known. Professor Gregory Eastwood who was then head of the department of gastroenterology at the University of Massachusetts and who is now dean of a prestigious medical school asked me if I could prove this view scientifically. I said I could.
For full functionality it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Read our more detailed articles about specific areas of medicine conditions nutrition and forms of treatment.
All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of MediLexicon International Limited.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information.
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day every day.
All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of MediLexicon International Limited.
Doctors in India replace a boys damaged nose with a new one which was grown on his forehead.
Nearly three out of four couples that begin fertility treatment will eventually become parents longterm studies suggest.
Doctors are warning oral antibiotics are being over prescribed for acne despite concerns about antibiotic resistance.
The widow of a Falklands war veteran will ask the High Court to prevent embryos they created being destroyed. Samantha Jefferies wants to have her dead husbands child.
Get an inside look at the work of Londons trauma doctors who perform lifesaving procedures in the field.
Follow the work and lives of five nurses who serve on the frontlines of healthcare in this documentary. Watch The American Nurse on May at pm ET.
Follow five nurses who serve on the front lines of healthcare in this documentary.
Sister Stephen shares her role as a nursing home director on The American Nurse.
A home nurse profiled in The American Nurse shares his story. Jason is a homehealth nurse who has transitioned from fixing cars to fixing people.
Emergency room nurse Katie Duke shares advice about how to stay healthy and safe in the event of an emergency.
This CoolSocial report was updated on May you can refresh this analysis whenever you want.
Medicaldiscoverynews.com scored Social Media Impact. Social Media Impact score is a measure of how much a site is popular on social networks. 
The description of the Facebook page describes website and its services to the social media users. A Facebook page link can be found in the homepage or in the robots.txt file. The total number of people who tagged or talked about website Facebook page in the last days. Facebook Timeline is the new layout of Facebook pages. The total number of people who like website Facebook page. The type of Facebook page. The URL of the found Facebook page.
The date of Twitter account creation. A Twitter account link can be found in the homepage or in the robots.txt file. Total number of Tweets. It measures how much websites talk to its social media audience. Total number of people who added this Twitter account to their lists. The description of the Twitter account describes website and its services to the social media users. Total number of Followers. It measures how big is the social media audience. Where site or its webmaster resides. The URL of the found Twitter account page.
The next date medicaldiscoverynews.com will expire. The owner usually renews every year its domain but some prefer buying more than a year only. The date medicaldiscoverynews.com was registered for the first time. The IP of a server identifies it. It can be unique or shared between multiple sites. The registar is the authority where medicaldiscoverynews.com is registered. Domain age is a measure of how much a site is old. Older sites have normally more importance and are more trustworthy than young ones. Server location specifies where it is physically.
Despite risks scientists say understanding transmission is critical to prevent flu pandemic
FitTV was an American digital cable and satellite channel owned by Discovery Communications. The channel focused on fitness and exerciserelated programming. FitTV offered programming with such fitness celebrities as Cathe Friedrich Sharon Mann Gilad Janklowicz Marilu Henner Tamilee Webb and others. On February it merged with Discovery Health Channel to become Discovery Fit Health now known as Discovery Life.
International Family Entertainment debuted a continuous preview of the Cable Health Club on August . Beginning Aug. the channel would be available in a halfhour continuous programming format to cable system operators for free. In October the channel moved to hour programming. Jake Steinfeld who had starred on the networks Big Brother Jake hosted its first program and was a constant presence on the channel in its early years.
The original formatting of an hour on Cable Health Club included a minute aerobic conditioning workout at the top of the hour featuring Tamilee Webb a segment on healthy living a Body by Jake workout starting at the bottom of the hour and Fitness Plus a home shopping segment for fitness items and equipment.
In Cable Health Club received new sponsors and minority partners Reebok International its first charter advertiser and Liberty Media. By this time the channel was received in one million homes and carried for two hours a day on the Family Channel. By November the Club was sharing a channel with Prime Sports Northwest on Seattle cable.
By April the Cable Health Club was renamed Fit TV. On June Fox Kids Worldwide Inc. purchased International Family Entertainment.
Americas Health Network was in separate operation from FitTV from March until . The channel was based in Orlando Florida and had an million production center with squarefoot m soundstage built at Universal Studios in late . The executives at the channel were Joe Maddox a former Discovery Channel executive and Webster Web Golinkin who had spent two and a half years planning raising million in capital and building the channel. The majority owner was the Providence Journal Company. The channel also had a fiveyear agreement with Mayo Clinic and IVI Publishing its electronic publisher to provide medical information and illustrative graphics. Mayo and IVI were also minority owners of the channel and other investors included venture capital firm Medical Innovation Partners Inc.
minutes an hour on AHN was devoted to shopping. The Health Mall carried upscale hardertofind items for healthy living. AHN had a deal with Clearwater Floridabased Home Shopping Network to provide orders and shipping infrastructure. For cable operators carriage deals included a small percentage of advertising and shopping revenue.citation needed
With an initial cable audience of subscribers Americas Health Network had reached subscribers by May and million by the time of the sale of its first majority owners. However cable carriage was a long struggle for AHN and other cable outlets that launched in this time frame Electronic Media now TV Week magazine described the environment many cable networks launched in faced as a jungle. Time Warner Cable the primary cable provider in Orlando did not carry AHN and so many people in the channels own hometown were unable to see its programs.
In Providence Journal was bought by the A.H. Belo Corporation. It was Belos first venture into cable television according to Golinkin Belo did not desire to gain any market share in cable. of the channels employees were laid off and they ceased producing live programs. The employees that remained including the entire management team were a skeleton crew to keep the channel running. A sale of most of the Belo stake to ColumbiaHCA Health Care Corp. for million was soon proposed. Columbia wanted to put AHN in its nearly hospitals and surgery centers plus many more outpatient clinics. However during this time period federal investigations over its billing practices government raids charges of Columbia officials with conspiracy and fraud and changes in management at ColumbiaHCA turned the company upside down according to a senior official. This turmoil spurred reviews of company strategies and the cancellation of some transactions including the sale of the AHN stake. New York real estate tycoon Howard Milstein offered a bridge loan which was accepted. Belos stake eventually was bought back by AHN. An investment group of former ColumbiaHCA officials including Richard Scott and David Vandewater took control of the network in late and live series resumed.
During this time another minority investor in the channel was Access Health a referral service.
On June AHN presented the first human birth carried live over the Internet from Orlandos Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children. The birth brought AHN major national and worldwide media attention and was even the focus of an editorial cartoon two days later in USA Today. By this time it reached million cable homes comparable to the CNNSI cable network which would fold in and the Game Show Network.
By June Scott and Vandewater had reduced their stake in Americas Health.
On September News Corp.s Fox Cable Networks Group bought FitTV and merged it with Americas Health Network which Fox Cable already owned in a joint venture with Scott and Vandewater. The resulting network was named The Health Network. In December Fox Cable sold of the channel to WebMD.
By the start of The Health Network reached . million homes. At the start of the station began new headquarters in Los Angeles and about half of its Orlando workforce was laid off leaving people out of work. The station also ran supplementary offices in New York and Nashville. At the time The Health Network said it was moving more of its production to New York and Los Angeles so it could feature more celebrities on its lineup. In the fall of it very nearly relaunched as WebMD Television with new programs and the removal of the AHN studio program library from its schedule that plan was put on hold and Fox received the of the channel it had sold back from WebMD which had lost billion in the year .
On September Discovery Communications bought The Health Network for million in cash and equity. On January Discovery reinstated the FitTV name as Discovery already owned its own health channel Discovery Health.
In March New Yorks Cablevision dropped the channel from its systems resulting in the loss of some three million subscribers down to million. In January the channels carriage remained significantly lower than most cable networks only holding a reach of million homes.
On January Discovery Communications announced that FitTV would be rebranded as Discovery Fit Health on February reflecting the changes to the networks schedule incorporating Discovery Healths programming.
Researchers will monitor potential infections among group of U.S. athletes traveling to Brazil. 
NIHs centralized service for health research images broll infographics and videos.
A monthly newsletter of practical consumer health news and information based on NIH research.
Precision Medicine Initiative Cohort Programwill enable a new era of medicine in which researchers providers and patients work together to develop individualized care.
NewsMedical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance Please note that medical information found on this website is designed to support not to replace the relationship between patient and physiciandoctor and the medical advice they may provide.
The survey showed that only of women consulted a healthcare professional about their symptoms despite the fact that many women said their symptoms were having a significant effect on their work life social life home life and sex life.
The goal of CliniCloud is to bring healthcare home. For us what that means is a patientcentered and patientmodeled healthcare system where we focus on the fact that consumers want access to healthcare and to a doctor.
Delivering drugs to the lungs via inhalation has a number of potential advantages over traditional routes of administration like pills or injections. For treating pulmonary diseases the obvious logic we are applying is topical delivery to the airways via inhalation.
IDPs is now a widely used acronym that stands for intrinsically disordered proteins. It is the term generally used by the scientific community to refer to a wide variety of proteins that do not have a stable D structure
It is extremely common. Indeed I think it is difficult to encounter an individual that did not experience it at one point or another. It occurs primarily during bacterial and viral infections but also in other diseases like cancer.
An increase in the level of the chemical isoprene may be the warning sign some dogs can detect in the breath of patients with type diabetes who are reaching risky low levels of blood sugar according to research by the University of Cambridge.
Although our knowledge and understanding of tinnitus still has a long way to go in the last few years research has improved its grasp on tinnitus and as such we are heading in a more positive direction for sufferers.
Sarcomas are rare tumours of connective tissue and as a result they can affect any part of the body. These are tumours of fat nerves bone tendons muscle and skin.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF is a debilitating and fatal lung disease that affects approximately million people worldwide. Despite the condition killing more people every year than some cancers it remains relatively unheard of frequently misdiagnosed and little understood.
While many are familiar with type diabetes few are aware of prediabetes a serious health condition that affects million Americans more than one in three adults and often leads to type diabetes.
Since in deaths in the UK are related to a heart or circulatory disease addressing heart health is a concern of national importance. Heart disease is the leading cause of death in men over and an estimated million of us are living with an undiagnosed risk factor high blood pressure.
Demodex mites are one of the most challenging problems that ophthalmologists and optometrists face in the routine care of their patients.
NewsMedical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance Please note that medical information found on this website is designed to support not to replace the relationship between patient and physiciandoctor and the medical advice they may provide.
These repo men chase luxury planes for big dollars but are the rewards worth the risk
Follow the lives of intrepid souls who dive to the floor of the Bering Sea for gold on custom built rigs.
Deadliest Catch returns early March th at c on Discovery. Let the games begin
Dual Survival follows Grady Powell and Josh James as they take on the planets most wild unforgiving places only on Discovery
Richard Rawlings and Aaron Kaufmann bring derelict classic cars back to life at Gas Monkey Garage.
Tommy Christmas and the car junkies at Christmas Automotive garage bring old cars back to life. Get exclusive videos photos cast bios and more. Only on Discovery.
Follow a motley crew of gold miners who have risked it all for a chance at the American Dream.
Go inside an active homicide investigation as it unfolds in realtime with Discoverys newest series Killing Fields.
In this tale of modern survival three survivalist couples are dropped in remote locations around the world and must rely on their skills as well as each other to make it out.
Misfit Garage follows four mechanics who all used to work with Richard Rawlings at Gas Monkey Garage and now have joined forces to create their own hot rod shop called Fired Up Garage.
Think the days of bootleggers backwoods stills and white lightning are over Not a chance Moonshiners tells the stories of the men and women who keep tradition alive.
Get photos videos myth results and more at the official page for MythBusters the longrunning series on Discovery Channel.
One man and one woman enter the wilderness without food shelter or clothing and must attempt to survive together for days.
Pacific Warriors follows the brave Hawaiian men and women who venture out in kayaks alone to catch some of the most desirable fish in the sea. Fishing is their livelihood and nothing will stop them from feeding their families.
In RACING EXTINCTION awardwinning director Louie Psihoyos The Cove assembles a team of artists and activists on a new undercover operation to expose the hidden world of endangered species and the race to protect them against mass extinction. Airing around the world this fall on Discovery.
This winter will be a very different one for this family of homesteaders. The two sons will try to survive the season for the first time on their own.
SHARK WEEK televisions longest running mustsee summer TV event returns to Discovery Channel in for its th year with another summer of sharkfilled specials
Our team of explorers will have to unearth and solve a number of complex clues that have protected the Treasure Of The Trinity for centuries.
Driven by the chance to save lives and the thrill of the hunt groups of Venom Hunters attempt to catch milk and release the worlds deadliest snakes.
Paul Teutul Sr. and Paul Jr. have built some of the most badass custom chopperstyle motorcycles ever.
AMISH MAFIA follows those who protect and maintain peace and order within the Amish community.
Watch as first time bar owners pursue their dream of opening a bar with the help of expert Tom Powers in Discoverys show BarHunters.
Jonah White the founder of Billy Bob Teeth and CEO of a multimillion dollar gaggift empire is in search of new products for his redneckapproved Billy Bob line.
Relive a series of incredible reallife survival stories with host Bear Grylls and the survivors themselves.
BIG GIANT SWORDS follows the unique artistry of Irish Mike Craughwell a professional welder who specializes in making gigantic swords.
On Buying Alaska follow home buyers as they check out unique properties to find their ultimate Alaskan retreat.
Buying the Bayou combines Cajun real estate agents and quirky clients to create irresistible television gumbo.
In Discoverys Chrome Underground Yusuf and Antonio travel inside lawless countries in search of rare vintage cars. The payoff can be huge but so are the
Cuban Chrome is a groundbreaking new docuseries that explores the fascinating time warp that characterizes Cuban car culture and the first American television series to be produced entirely on location in Cuba.
The Devils Ride videos take you inside the world of motorcycle clubs. Watch The Devils Ride only on Discovery
Mike Rowe shadows the unsung laborers who make a living in some of the most unthinkable ways.
Unprepared and left to fend for yourself what would you do if you were captured blindfolded and taken to an unknown remote location Dude Youre Screwed
Explosives expert Matt Barnett founder and president of Texplo Explosives is the man to call when you need something blown up.
On FROZEN PLANET travel to the ends of the earth for the ultimate portrait of the Earths polar regions.
This is the secret life of the grizzly. Get closer than ever before to North Americas grizzly bear with Great Bear Stakeout.
Every guys ultimate fourwheel fantasy becomes his worst nightmare when hes forced to choose between desperately needed cash and his dream car.
Through newly released materials Discovery explores events surrounding the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.
Six strangers fight for survival and wealth in a small frontier town in the remote Klondike of the s.
Get a look at LIFE like youve never seen it before. Uncover the planets most fascinating species in this natural history series brought to you by Discovery and the BBC.
Kustom car guru Rick Dore and WWE superstar Chuck Palumbo restore classic cars from hoarders massive collections. Get exclusive videos photos and more. Only on Discovery.
On MAN CHEETAH WILD Kim Wolhuter connects with wild cheetahs in a way never thought possible.
North America turns the lens toward our homeland and captures a land where life collides with hostile untamed wilderness in the most diverse deadly enviro
The Presidents Gatekeepers reveals the extraordinary behindthescenes history of the White House Chiefs of Staff.
Billy Derian and Steve Reck share the same dream working in a garage that fixes up and restores vintage cars and hot rods.
American logger Sean Vann has put it all on the line for a chance to make big money .IF he can get American loggers to work in deepest Siberia.
Daredevil Nik Wallenda attempts to cross the Grand Canyon on a tightrope live only on Discovery Channel
Storm Chasers videos and follow Reed Timmer Sean Casey and Joshua Wurman capture severe weather video and scientific data. Watch it on Discovery
Watch Survivorman videos and see Les Stroud alone in the wild with only his wits and stamina to sustain him. Dont miss Survivorman only on Discovery
Texas Car Wars videos view competitive auto body shops take different approaches to autoflipping. Watch Texas Car Wars only on Discovery
Steve Darnell and his crew at Welderup Garage create unique rat rods from junkyard scraps. Get exclusive videos photos bios and more. Only on Discovery.
Like most websites Discovery sites use cookies to help you experience all the great content we have to offer. To find out more about cookies and how you can manage them please see our privacy policy. By continuing to use this website you agree to our use of cookies.
Doctors in India replace a boys damaged nose with a new one which was grown on his forehead.
Nearly three out of four couples that begin fertility treatment will eventually become parents longterm studies suggest.
Doctors are warning oral antibiotics are being over prescribed for acne despite concerns about antibiotic resistance.
The widow of a Falklands war veteran will ask the High Court to prevent embryos they created being destroyed. Samantha Jefferies wants to have her dead husbands child.
DISCOVERY FIT AND HEALTH THE REIGNING AUTHORITY FOR MEDICALMYSTERY PROGRAMMING LAUNCHES THE GROUNDBREAKING SERIES MEDICAL DETECTIVES
MEDICAL DETECTIVES started it all it inspired such popular series as CSI Criminal Minds and every other modern crime series on TV today said Henry Schleiff Group President Investigation Discovery Discovery Fit Health Destination America and American Heroes Channel. Indeed as the one and ONLY show that started the forensic genre with its blend of brilliant medicine and devious crime MEDICAL DETECTIVES truly belongs on the one and ONLY network devoted to medicalmystery programming Discovery Fit Health said Henry Schleiff Group President
When I was intently watching the O.J. Simpson trial along with the rest of America I recognized the significance of scientific evidence in murder trials. That right there was the inspiration for the series years ago and the importance of the series hasnt changed since said Paul Dowling creator and executive producer of MEDICAL DETECTIVES.
MEDICAL DETECTIVES is created and produced by Paul Dowling with Medstar Television and distributed by Gary Lico with LILOLME. For Discovery Fit Health Jane Latman is general manager and Henry Schleiff is Group President Investigation Discovery Destination America American Heroes Channel and Discovery Fit Health.
The owner of this website www.harborsidehealthcenter.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebbbdcua.
Director and HostRadio Show broadcast on stations in states and countries. Accompanies a newspaper column published in Texas newspapers including Galveston Abilene Del Rio Corpus Christi and Odessa.
Powered by Pure Scopus Elsevier Fingerprint Engine Elsevier B.V.
NewsMedical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance Please note that medical information found on this website is designed to support not to replace the relationship between patient and physiciandoctor and the medical advice they may provide.
Love to learn Like us on Facebook for more smart memes
Copyright document.writenew Date.getFullYear Beacon Solutions Inc. All Rights Reserved.
DISCOVERY FIT AND HEALTH THE REIGNING AUTHORITY FOR MEDICALMYSTERY PROGRAMMING LAUNCHES THE GROUNDBREAKING SERIES MEDICAL DETECTIVES
MEDICAL DETECTIVES started it all it inspired such popular series as CSI Criminal Minds and every other modern crime series on TV today said Henry Schleiff Group President Investigation Discovery Discovery Fit Health Destination America and American Heroes Channel. Indeed as the one and ONLY show that started the forensic genre with its blend of brilliant medicine and devious crime MEDICAL DETECTIVES truly belongs on the one and ONLY network devoted to medicalmystery programming Discovery Fit Health said Henry Schleiff Group President
When I was intently watching the O.J. Simpson trial along with the rest of America I recognized the significance of scientific evidence in murder trials. That right there was the inspiration for the series years ago and the importance of the series hasnt changed since said Paul Dowling creator and executive producer of MEDICAL DETECTIVES.
MEDICAL DETECTIVES is created and produced by Paul Dowling with Medstar Television and distributed by Gary Lico with LILOLME. For Discovery Fit Health Jane Latman is general manager and Henry Schleiff is Group President Investigation Discovery Destination America American Heroes Channel and Discovery Fit Health.
st American Chemical SocietyNational Meeting ExpositionMarch San Diego CA
EurekAlert provides embargoed and breaking science news you cant afford to miss.
EurekAlert is a service of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Copyright by the American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS
Copyright by the American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS
The University of Maryland Medical Center is home to many nationally and internationally recognized physicians and scientists who are faculty at the University of Maryland School of Medicine and perform pioneering research and use the latest stateoftheart technologies to advance the field of medicine and save lives. We bring together laboratory scientists and clinical investigators to better understand disease develop new methods of treatment and translate research results into clinical practice. At the University of Maryland Medical Center groundbreaking discoveries are happening every day.
Watch the adsthat highlight our Medical Center innovations above and the University of Maryland Childrens Hospital here.
Aromatase inhibitors stop the production of estrogen that fuels the growth of cancer cells and are widely used to treat postmenopausal women with hormoneresponsive breast cancer. University of Maryland Marlene and Stewart Greenebaum Cancer Center research scientist Dr. Angela Brodie pioneered the development of this new class of drugs which have also shown promise in preventing breast cancer in highrisk patients. Click here for more information
As part of a new personalized medicine initiative the Medical Center offers genetic testing to help doctors determine which medication a patient should take after a stenting procedure in order to prevent blood clots that could lead to serious and potentially fatal heart attacks and strokes.
Fighting infectious disease is a key area for basic science research. Stefanie Vogel PhD professor in the departments of Microbiology and Immunology Medicine is part of a team that found an experimental drug can treat influenza and prevent virusinduced lung injury and death even when administered days after initial infection.
The University of Maryland Lung Transplant Team is the first in the country to use ex vivo lung perfusion to repair donor lungs prior to transplantation. This outofthebody technique in which donor lungs are evaluated and repaired increases the donor lung pool significantly and provides more transplantable lungs to more than on the waiting list. Click here for more information on the Lung Perfusion Program.
Cardiac surgeons at the University of Maryland Heart Center have implanted a ventricular assist device using a minimally invasive technique that employs small openings in the chest a patientfriendly approach that provides the same results as traditional chestsplitting openheart surgery for heart pump implantation. For the patient the new technique means quicker recovery reduced chance of infection and minimal blood loss. Click here for more information about this procedure.
There are many factors that determine a patients wait time for an organ transplant including severity of organ failure blood type and overall health status. Studies have shown that patients who join wait lists at more than one transplant center have an increased chance of getting transplanted sooner. Double listing means that a patient has been evaluated and approved for the transplant wait list at two or more centers. As one of the busiest transplant program in the country with wait times shorter than the national average for kidney and liver transplants the University of Maryland Medical Center encourages patients to list with us as well as list with a transplant center close to home.Click hereto learn more about double listing.
If you were diagnosed with heart failure years ago your chances of recovery were very low. Now advances in medical and surgical treatments make it possible to slow stop or reverse heart failure. And for patients in the advanced stages of heart failure and are not eligible for a heart transplant there are new ways to use ventricular assist devices also called VADs as a proven treatment option. Click here to learn more about the University of Maryland Medical Centers Mechanical Heart and Lung Support Program. 
Researchers will monitor potential infections among group of U.S. athletes traveling to Brazil. 
NIHs centralized service for health research images broll infographics and videos.
A monthly newsletter of practical consumer health news and information based on NIH research.
Precision Medicine Initiative Cohort Programwill enable a new era of medicine in which researchers providers and patients work together to develop individualized care.
It has its origins in mankinds quest to defeat a bacteria infamous for causing cholera. 
Israeli cave finds challenge our theories about evolutions winners and losers.
A quest to understand one of humanitys most fascinating and dangerous disorders
Yellowstone Lake presents some challenges that even the Mariana Trench cant match
The reign of the dinosaurs was in retreat millions of years before the asteroid hit 
It has its origins in mankinds quest to defeat a bacteria infamous for causing cholera. 
Israeli cave finds challenge our theories about evolutions winners and losers.
A quest to understand one of humanitys most fascinating and dangerous disorders
Yellowstone Lake presents some challenges that even the Mariana Trench cant match
The reign of the dinosaurs was in retreat millions of years before the asteroid hit 
NewsMedical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance Please note that medical information found on this website is designed to support not to replace the relationship between patient and physiciandoctor and the medical advice they may provide.
Medical XpressIt was an exciting year in the medical research field as teams across the world continued to strive for a deeper understanding of the human body and for ways to prevent or treat ailments. Some focused on aging or ways to prevent it while others looked for ways to enhance what Mother Nature gave us naturally.
The geographic origin of AIDS is now knownA widely diverse team of researchers with members from the U.S. and several countries in Europe was able to piece together where when and how the first instance of AIDS in humans occurred. Using statistical analysis the team was able to pinpoint the original infection site as Kinshasa the capital of what is now the Democratic Republic of Congosometime during the s. The team has published their findings in the journal Science. The first human infection came courtesy of a chimpanzee as has been suspected. The teams work illustrates how social change and transport methods contributed to the pandemic that began in the s.
Cesarean section may cause epigenetic changesA study conducted by a team of researchers at the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden revealed evidence that suggests delivering babies via cesarean section can result in changes made to the babys stem cells. Such changes the team found can be blamed for an increased risk of immunological diseases such as asthma diabetes type celiac disease etc. The team has published its findings in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecologyit also reports that it remains unclear whether such epigenetic changes are lifelong or shortlived.
Trigger for stress processes discovered in the brainA team of researchers working at the Center for Brain Research at MedUni in Vienna along with colleagues from the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden discovered an important factor related to stressthe protein secretagogin was found to work as a trigger in the brain by releasing the stress hormone CRH. The team has published its findings in the EMBO Journal. Prior research had shown that CRH is part of the process that leads to signaling in the pituitary gland and to other organs.
Researchers identify first steps in formation of pancreatic cancerA team of bioresearchers working at the Mayo Clinic were able to identify the initial processes that lead to pancreatic cancera finding that could lead to therapies for preventing the cancer from getting started. The team has published its findings in the journal Cancer Discovery. The team discovered that the initial processes which occur at the molecular level came about due to the development of lesions some of which morphed into cancerous growths.
Scientists locate homing signal in brain explaining why some people are better navigatorsResearchers working at University College London identified the part of the brain that is responsible for allowing people to know which direction to travel given their current location and orientation. In a paper published in Current Biology the team explains that the study found that the entorhinal region in the brain which was already known to be responsible for orientation is also responsible for our ability to navigate. Researchers found they were actually able to measure a persons sense of direction using fMRI scans.
Research shows sevenyearolds can think strategicallyA trio of researchers working at the University of Minnesota conducted a study that involved testing children on thinking strategies and found evidence that suggests that kids as young as just six and a half years old are able to use strategies comparable to those of adults when playing games. The team published its results in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences finding that the children were able to use recursive thinking and had an ability to infer what others were thinking based on incentives presented to them.
Scientists discover how to switch off autoimmune diseasesA team of researchers working at the University of Bristol reported on a major breakthrough in finding a cure for autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis. In a paper published in Nature Communications the team describes finding a way to stop the immune system from attacking healthy tissueby learning how the process of conversion from attacker to protector works. The process is currently going through clinical development by a biotechnology company affiliated with the university.
Researchers discover genetic marker behind stroke and cardiovascular diseasea team of researchers working at the University of Virginia announced that it had found a genetic variant tied to an increased risk of stroke and certain types of cardiovascular disease. In a paper published in the journal PLOS Genetics the team described the study which included analyzing the genomes of over people and how it also led to findings related to metabolic pathways that play a role in many types of diseases.
Memory loss associated with Alzheimers reversed for first timeA combined team of researchers with UCLA and the Buck Institute for Research on Aging reported that a point therapeutic program they had developed had reduced signs of dementia in nine out of ten volunteer patients involved in the study. In a paper published in the journal Aging the team describes the program and details the results they observed with patients that adhered to it over a three to sixmonth trial period.
Human clinical trial of drug shown to completely reverse diabetes in human islets miceA team of researchers working at the University of Alabama announced that studies they had conducted testing the drug blood pressure medicine verapamil showed that it had completely eliminated any signs of diabetes in lab animalsthat success has led to . million grant from Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. The team has not published the results yet but will likely do so after test trials which are scheduled to start sometime early next year. 
To learn about new discoveries this coming year check out our site Medical Xpress.
Medical XpressA new study from Karolinska Institutet indicates that the mode of delivery could make an imprint in the stem cells of the newborn infant. The finding may be of interest for understanding why individuals .
A study published in Science magazine reveals for the first time where when and how the worlds AIDS pandemic originated. Thanks to a statistical analysis of all the genetic data available on the human immunodeficiency virus .
Medical XpressA team of bioresearchers with members from across Europe has found evidence that suggests that grey matter development early in life tends to be the first to regress later in liferelated findings also .
At the Center for Brain Research at the MedUni Vienna an important factor for stress has been identified in collaboration with the Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm Sweden. This is the protein secretagogin that plays an .
Medical XpressA team of researchers working at the University of Rochester in New York has found that injecting glial cells into a mouse brain caused an improvement in both memory and cognition in the mouse. In their .
The part of the brain that tells us the direction to travel when we navigate has been identified by UCL scientists and the strength of its signal predicts how well people can navigate.
Researchers from the University of Zurich and University Childrens Hospital Zurich have discovered the first Xchromosomeinherited type of the congenital disease osteogenesis imperfecta also known as brittlebone disease. .
In the most comprehensive study of its kind researchers in the Institute for Molecular Virology and School of Dentistry at the University of Minnesota report that most types of retroviruses have distinct nonidentical virus .
Proteins that play key roles in the timing of cell division also moonlight in regulating blood sugar levels UT Southwestern Medical Center researchers have found.
Iowa State University researchers have described with singlemolecule precision how copper ions cause prion proteins to misfold and seed the misfolding and clumping of nearby prion proteins.
Like most websites Discovery sites use cookies to help you experience all the great content we have to offer. To find out more about cookies and how you can manage them please see our privacy policy. By continuing to use this website you agree to our use of cookies.
Australianbased Naked and Afraid contestant spills the beans about his time on the show.
We caught up with Sean Dwyer the youngest captain ever in the history of the Deadliest Catch. 
Meet the men who brew their shine and the local authorities who try to keep them honest.
Deep in the Alaskan wilderness lives a newly discovered family who was born and raised wild.
Australia is headed for a severe flu season with doctors advising people take precautions to protect themselves from getting sick and spreading the virus.
Mental health advocates are warning that vulnerable people could fall through the gaps because reforms to the sector are being rolled out too quickly. All mental health services funded by the Federal Health Department will soon be commissioned through the recently established primary health networks. But Mental Health Australia is worried that existing services will close before new arrangements are in place.
As NSW and Qld face off in the opening match of this years State of Origin series former State of Origin greats Steve Mortimer and Steve Ella have called on rugby league to put an end to alcohol sponsorship of the sport.
One in six Australians have gone hungry in the past year according to Foodbanks annual survey. The nations longest serving food relief organisation says the hunger plight is reaching crisis point with per cent of welfare agencies and community groups not having enough food to meet demand.
The Australian Population Research Institute says there are too many doctors in Australia which is why GP costs to the government are rising. Other researchers say the rise in costs is reasonable given the ageing population and more chronic conditions while GPs say its not that there are too many doctors thats the problem its that some areas of cities are oversupplied while rural and remote areas are not well serviced. 
There are calls for greater regulation of the IVF industry following last nights Four Corners story about the dismally low success rates of fertility treatment in women aged over . Medical legal experts and some of the pioneers of the IVF technology last night issued warnings about the proliferation of socalled snakeoil treatments within fertility clinics. Today fertility specialists have hit back saying Australia is an international leader in infertility research and treatment and is governed by a code of practice thats the envy of the world. But observers of health policy and fertility technology say the industry has undergone enormous change and regulation hasnt kept pace.
A spike in the use of the drug ice on Tasmanias North West coast prompted the state government to invest in programs including the funding of a new bed residential drug and alcohol rehabilitation centre. The first graduate of the week program is starting study so that he can eventually return as a worker to help other people transform their lives.
Twentythree Victoria Police employees have taken their own lives since which is more than four times as many as those killed on active duty. Victorias Chief Police Commissioner Graham Ashton commissioned a review into police mental health last year and now says he will implement all recommendations.
An estimated one in five Australians suffer from some form of chronic pain. Many use prescription medications including opioids like morphine to help get them through the day. However a new study has revealed that using opioid painkillers to treat chronic nerve pain can actually make the pain worse and last much longer.
The latest arthritis research is recommending ways to slash Australias health budget by hundreds of millions of dollars. The cost to the Government is expected to grow significantly unless more is done to prevent and better manage the condition. Australias peak arthritis body says better treatments for people with the condition including diet changes and exercise routines could save the health system as much as million a year.
Health authorities in the Northern Territory have issued an alert for a potentially fatal mosquitoborne virus. Murray Valley Encephalitis has been detected in chickens on the outskirts of Darwin and while it is considered a rare virus there is no vaccine available.
The decadeslong drought in antibiotic discovery could be over after a breakthrough by US scientists.
Their novel method for growing bacteria has yielded new antibiotics with one deemed very promising.
The last new class of antibiotics to make it to clinic was discovered nearly three decades ago.
The study in the journal Nature has been described as a gamechanger and experts believe the antibiotic haul is just the tip of the iceberg.
The heyday of antibiotic discovery was in the s and s but nothing found since has made it into doctors hands. 
Since then microbes have become incredibly resistant. Extensively drugresistant tuberculosis ignores nearly everything medicine can throw at it.
The researchers at the Northeastern University in Boston Massachusetts turned to the source of nearly all antibiotics soil.
The team created a subterranean hotel for bacteria. One bacterium was placed in each room and the whole device was buried in soil.
It allowed the unique chemistry of soil to permeate the room but kept the bacteria in place for study.
The scientists involved believe they can grow nearly half of all soil bacteria. 
Chemicals produced by the microbes dug up from one researchers back yard were then tested for antimicrobial properties.
The study shows uncultured bacteria do harbour novel chemistry that we have not seen before. That is a promising source of new antimicrobials and will hopefully help revive the field of antibiotic discovery.
Tests on teixobactin showed it was toxic to bacteria but not mammalian tissues and could clear a deadly dose of MRSA in tests on mice.
The researchers also believe that bacteria are unlikely to develop resistance to teixobactin.
It targets fats which are essential for building the bacterial cell wall and the scientists argue it would be difficult to evolve resistance.
Here is an antibiotic that essentially evolved to be free of resistance said Prof Lewis. We havent seen that before.
It has several independent different tricks that minimise resistance development.
There are limits to the discovery of the antibiotic teixobactin which has yet to be tested in people.
It works on only Grampositive bacteria this includes MRSA and mycobacterium tuberculosis.
It cannot penetrate the extra layer of protection in Gramnegative bacteria such as E. coli.
But even if their method does mark a new era of antibiotic discovery there are big questions.
Sir Alexander Fleming who discovered penicillin warned of the dangers of resistance back in his Nobel prize speech in . 
Yet even now prescriptions in England are rising with half deemed inappropriate and contributing to the problem. 
But can we be trusted with new antibiotics Or will we make the same mistakes again
Prof Laura Piddock from the University of Birmingham said it was an amazing and exciting study and that the tool could be a gamechanger.
The discovery of this new antibiotic from a new class with a novel mode of action is very exciting. 
I hope that teixobactin will now enter clinical development as the basis for a new drug to treat infections.
It could leave many common infections untreatable and make many staples of modern medicine including surgery chemotherapy and organ transplants impossible.
He said it was vital the antibiotic pipeline was reopened if we are to avert a publichealth disaster.
Dr James Mason from Kings College London said the antibiotic pipeline had all but dried up.
Its impressive what theyve done. From one soil sample theyve found one new antibiotic and their approach opens up a new route to a huge number of potential products. 
They have shown that screening soil microorganisms for antibiotics is unfinished business.
However he cautioned that although the new antibiotic had exciting properties it was too early to conclude it would entirely avoid the development of resistance.
The researchers said their discovery was similar to vancomycin. It was discovered in the s but it took until the late s for resistance to develop.
They argue the delay in resistance is an inherent property but vancomycin was kept back and not used that extensively Dr Mason said.
Tony Blair says he accepts full responsibility as the Iraq Inquiry report concludes the former PM overstated Saddam Husseins threat and sent UK troops to war in with wholly inadequate plans for the aftermath.
The survey showed that only of women consulted a healthcare professional about their symptoms despite the fact that many women said their symptoms were having a significant effect on their work life social life home life and sex life.
The goal of CliniCloud is to bring healthcare home. For us what that means is a patientcentered and patientmodeled healthcare system where we focus on the fact that consumers want access to healthcare and to a doctor.
Delivering drugs to the lungs via inhalation has a number of potential advantages over traditional routes of administration like pills or injections. For treating pulmonary diseases the obvious logic we are applying is topical delivery to the airways via inhalation.
IDPs is now a widely used acronym that stands for intrinsically disordered proteins. It is the term generally used by the scientific community to refer to a wide variety of proteins that do not have a stable D structure
It is extremely common. Indeed I think it is difficult to encounter an individual that did not experience it at one point or another. It occurs primarily during bacterial and viral infections but also in other diseases like cancer.
An increase in the level of the chemical isoprene may be the warning sign some dogs can detect in the breath of patients with type diabetes who are reaching risky low levels of blood sugar according to research by the University of Cambridge.
Although our knowledge and understanding of tinnitus still has a long way to go in the last few years research has improved its grasp on tinnitus and as such we are heading in a more positive direction for sufferers.
Sarcomas are rare tumours of connective tissue and as a result they can affect any part of the body. These are tumours of fat nerves bone tendons muscle and skin.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF is a debilitating and fatal lung disease that affects approximately million people worldwide. Despite the condition killing more people every year than some cancers it remains relatively unheard of frequently misdiagnosed and little understood.
While many are familiar with type diabetes few are aware of prediabetes a serious health condition that affects million Americans more than one in three adults and often leads to type diabetes.
Since in deaths in the UK are related to a heart or circulatory disease addressing heart health is a concern of national importance. Heart disease is the leading cause of death in men over and an estimated million of us are living with an undiagnosed risk factor high blood pressure.
Demodex mites are one of the most challenging problems that ophthalmologists and optometrists face in the routine care of their patients.
NewsMedical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance Please note that medical information found on this website is designed to support not to replace the relationship between patient and physiciandoctor and the medical advice they may provide.
Discovery Health Channel DHC was a U.S.based cable TV network. The parent company Discovery Communications Incorporated started official broadcasting on August . DHC specialized in health and wellness entertainment. DHC also had a chapter in the United Kingdom known as Discovery HomeandHealth and DiscoveryHealthCanada.
DHC broadcasted a series of medicalbased reality TV programming. Initially the programming came from similar channels such as TLC. Later DHC started broadcasting its own reality TV programming. In it won a Daytime Emmy for the original TV programming Adoption Stories. FitTV a sister network of the DHC brand has adopted most of the fitnessrelated programming since the channel discontinued broadcasting on December .
OWN Oprah Winfrey Network replaced DHC on January . FitTV also underwent a merger and became Discovery FitnessandHealth. A popular TV series that aired on DHC included UntoldStoriesOftheER which is now a standard programming on the newly rebranded Discovery FitnessandHealth channel.
The latest development is that Discovery Communications Inc. has managed another rebranding. The company rebranded the Discovery FitnessandHealth network. Its now known as Discovery Life. It began airing on January of this year. Fortunately it has kept many of its popular programming. The UK chapter of Discovery is still active and attracts a large following.
Know how to prevent treat and control the symptoms of various diseases and medical conditions. We explain whats happening in your body when disease strikes and what you can do to feel better faster. See more 
Whether youre choosing a doctor or trying to navigate health insurance jargon these articles will help you understand the health insurance system. See more 
The human body is an amazing structure made up of many fascinating parts and systems. Learn about the human body and how its systems work together. See more 
Love and relationships are a major part of the human experience but they mystify many of us. Learn what scientific research has to say about love and get advice on creating and maintaining relationships. See more 
Medicine has to do with diseases and conditions that affect the entire body. In this section learn about testing and treatment plans including the medicines used to prevent and treat a range of diseases and conditions. See more 
Find articles on stress phobias and schizophrenia. This section offers information on a range of mental health issues. See more 
From conception to cradle the Pregnancy and Parenting Channel guides you on the journey to parenthood. Learn what to expect when youre expecting. See more 
The Sexual Health Channel explores the functions and dysfunctions of the reproductive system. Learn about maintaining a healthy sex life and avoiding and treating sexual problems. See more 
Skin care is a broad term that refers to everything from hygiene to antiaging regimens. Learn more about skin care at HowStuffWorks. See more 
There are many approaches and countless factors that make up a persons overall wellness. HowStuffWorks has extensive coverage on the different types of natural medicine such as DIY remedies and traditional Chinese medicine. See more 
Newsmax Moneynews Newsmax Health and Independent. American. are registered trademarks of Newsmax Media Inc. Newsmax TV and Newsmax World are trademarks of Newsmax Media Inc.
Medical XpressIt was an exciting year in the medical research field as teams across the world continued to strive for a deeper understanding of the human body and for ways to prevent or treat ailments. Some focused on aging or ways to prevent it while others looked for ways to enhance what Mother Nature gave us naturally.
The geographic origin of AIDS is now knownA widely diverse team of researchers with members from the U.S. and several countries in Europe was able to piece together where when and how the first instance of AIDS in humans occurred. Using statistical analysis the team was able to pinpoint the original infection site as Kinshasa the capital of what is now the Democratic Republic of Congosometime during the s. The team has published their findings in the journal Science. The first human infection came courtesy of a chimpanzee as has been suspected. The teams work illustrates how social change and transport methods contributed to the pandemic that began in the s.
Cesarean section may cause epigenetic changesA study conducted by a team of researchers at the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden revealed evidence that suggests delivering babies via cesarean section can result in changes made to the babys stem cells. Such changes the team found can be blamed for an increased risk of immunological diseases such as asthma diabetes type celiac disease etc. The team has published its findings in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecologyit also reports that it remains unclear whether such epigenetic changes are lifelong or shortlived.
Trigger for stress processes discovered in the brainA team of researchers working at the Center for Brain Research at MedUni in Vienna along with colleagues from the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden discovered an important factor related to stressthe protein secretagogin was found to work as a trigger in the brain by releasing the stress hormone CRH. The team has published its findings in the EMBO Journal. Prior research had shown that CRH is part of the process that leads to signaling in the pituitary gland and to other organs.
Researchers identify first steps in formation of pancreatic cancerA team of bioresearchers working at the Mayo Clinic were able to identify the initial processes that lead to pancreatic cancera finding that could lead to therapies for preventing the cancer from getting started. The team has published its findings in the journal Cancer Discovery. The team discovered that the initial processes which occur at the molecular level came about due to the development of lesions some of which morphed into cancerous growths.
Scientists locate homing signal in brain explaining why some people are better navigatorsResearchers working at University College London identified the part of the brain that is responsible for allowing people to know which direction to travel given their current location and orientation. In a paper published in Current Biology the team explains that the study found that the entorhinal region in the brain which was already known to be responsible for orientation is also responsible for our ability to navigate. Researchers found they were actually able to measure a persons sense of direction using fMRI scans.
Research shows sevenyearolds can think strategicallyA trio of researchers working at the University of Minnesota conducted a study that involved testing children on thinking strategies and found evidence that suggests that kids as young as just six and a half years old are able to use strategies comparable to those of adults when playing games. The team published its results in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences finding that the children were able to use recursive thinking and had an ability to infer what others were thinking based on incentives presented to them.
Scientists discover how to switch off autoimmune diseasesA team of researchers working at the University of Bristol reported on a major breakthrough in finding a cure for autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis. In a paper published in Nature Communications the team describes finding a way to stop the immune system from attacking healthy tissueby learning how the process of conversion from attacker to protector works. The process is currently going through clinical development by a biotechnology company affiliated with the university.
Researchers discover genetic marker behind stroke and cardiovascular diseasea team of researchers working at the University of Virginia announced that it had found a genetic variant tied to an increased risk of stroke and certain types of cardiovascular disease. In a paper published in the journal PLOS Genetics the team described the study which included analyzing the genomes of over people and how it also led to findings related to metabolic pathways that play a role in many types of diseases.
Memory loss associated with Alzheimers reversed for first timeA combined team of researchers with UCLA and the Buck Institute for Research on Aging reported that a point therapeutic program they had developed had reduced signs of dementia in nine out of ten volunteer patients involved in the study. In a paper published in the journal Aging the team describes the program and details the results they observed with patients that adhered to it over a three to sixmonth trial period.
Human clinical trial of drug shown to completely reverse diabetes in human islets miceA team of researchers working at the University of Alabama announced that studies they had conducted testing the drug blood pressure medicine verapamil showed that it had completely eliminated any signs of diabetes in lab animalsthat success has led to . million grant from Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. The team has not published the results yet but will likely do so after test trials which are scheduled to start sometime early next year. 
To learn about new discoveries this coming year check out our site Medical Xpress.
Medical XpressA new study from Karolinska Institutet indicates that the mode of delivery could make an imprint in the stem cells of the newborn infant. The finding may be of interest for understanding why individuals .
A study published in Science magazine reveals for the first time where when and how the worlds AIDS pandemic originated. Thanks to a statistical analysis of all the genetic data available on the human immunodeficiency virus .
Medical XpressA team of bioresearchers with members from across Europe has found evidence that suggests that grey matter development early in life tends to be the first to regress later in liferelated findings also .
At the Center for Brain Research at the MedUni Vienna an important factor for stress has been identified in collaboration with the Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm Sweden. This is the protein secretagogin that plays an .
Medical XpressA team of researchers working at the University of Rochester in New York has found that injecting glial cells into a mouse brain caused an improvement in both memory and cognition in the mouse. In their .
The part of the brain that tells us the direction to travel when we navigate has been identified by UCL scientists and the strength of its signal predicts how well people can navigate.
Researchers from the University of Zurich and University Childrens Hospital Zurich have discovered the first Xchromosomeinherited type of the congenital disease osteogenesis imperfecta also known as brittlebone disease. .
In the most comprehensive study of its kind researchers in the Institute for Molecular Virology and School of Dentistry at the University of Minnesota report that most types of retroviruses have distinct nonidentical virus .
Proteins that play key roles in the timing of cell division also moonlight in regulating blood sugar levels UT Southwestern Medical Center researchers have found.
Iowa State University researchers have described with singlemolecule precision how copper ions cause prion proteins to misfold and seed the misfolding and clumping of nearby prion proteins.
The decadeslong drought in antibiotic discovery could be over after a breakthrough by US scientists.
Their novel method for growing bacteria has yielded new antibiotics with one deemed very promising.
The last new class of antibiotics to make it to clinic was discovered nearly three decades ago.
The study in the journal Nature has been described as a gamechanger and experts believe the antibiotic haul is just the tip of the iceberg.
The heyday of antibiotic discovery was in the s and s but nothing found since has made it into doctors hands. 
Since then microbes have become incredibly resistant. Extensively drugresistant tuberculosis ignores nearly everything medicine can throw at it.
The researchers at the Northeastern University in Boston Massachusetts turned to the source of nearly all antibiotics soil.
The team created a subterranean hotel for bacteria. One bacterium was placed in each room and the whole device was buried in soil.
It allowed the unique chemistry of soil to permeate the room but kept the bacteria in place for study.
The scientists involved believe they can grow nearly half of all soil bacteria. 
Chemicals produced by the microbes dug up from one researchers back yard were then tested for antimicrobial properties.
The study shows uncultured bacteria do harbour novel chemistry that we have not seen before. That is a promising source of new antimicrobials and will hopefully help revive the field of antibiotic discovery.
Tests on teixobactin showed it was toxic to bacteria but not mammalian tissues and could clear a deadly dose of MRSA in tests on mice.
The researchers also believe that bacteria are unlikely to develop resistance to teixobactin.
It targets fats which are essential for building the bacterial cell wall and the scientists argue it would be difficult to evolve resistance.
Here is an antibiotic that essentially evolved to be free of resistance said Prof Lewis. We havent seen that before.
It has several independent different tricks that minimise resistance development.
There are limits to the discovery of the antibiotic teixobactin which has yet to be tested in people.
It works on only Grampositive bacteria this includes MRSA and mycobacterium tuberculosis.
It cannot penetrate the extra layer of protection in Gramnegative bacteria such as E. coli.
But even if their method does mark a new era of antibiotic discovery there are big questions.
Sir Alexander Fleming who discovered penicillin warned of the dangers of resistance back in his Nobel prize speech in . 
Yet even now prescriptions in England are rising with half deemed inappropriate and contributing to the problem. 
But can we be trusted with new antibiotics Or will we make the same mistakes again
Prof Laura Piddock from the University of Birmingham said it was an amazing and exciting study and that the tool could be a gamechanger.
The discovery of this new antibiotic from a new class with a novel mode of action is very exciting. 
I hope that teixobactin will now enter clinical development as the basis for a new drug to treat infections.
It could leave many common infections untreatable and make many staples of modern medicine including surgery chemotherapy and organ transplants impossible.
He said it was vital the antibiotic pipeline was reopened if we are to avert a publichealth disaster.
Dr James Mason from Kings College London said the antibiotic pipeline had all but dried up.
Its impressive what theyve done. From one soil sample theyve found one new antibiotic and their approach opens up a new route to a huge number of potential products. 
They have shown that screening soil microorganisms for antibiotics is unfinished business.
However he cautioned that although the new antibiotic had exciting properties it was too early to conclude it would entirely avoid the development of resistance.
The researchers said their discovery was similar to vancomycin. It was discovered in the s but it took until the late s for resistance to develop.
They argue the delay in resistance is an inherent property but vancomycin was kept back and not used that extensively Dr Mason said.
Tony Blair says he accepts full responsibility as the Iraq Inquiry report concludes the former PM overstated Saddam Husseins threat and sent UK troops to war in with wholly inadequate plans for the aftermath.
Nobel Prize in Medicine goes to customary hostile to parasitic disclosures Offer This article The current years Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine is part between two. Read more 
Top Trends in Health and Science for What zones of exploration are warming up in In what manner will patients access social insurance contrastingly in the coming year We asked sp. Read more 
Main Medical Breakthroughs VIDEO SCRIPT Main Medical Breakthroughs Without a hefty portion of these revelations and developments few of us would be alive today. Welcome to WatchMojo.. Read more 
Course of events of United States revelations Timetable of United States disclosures includes the leaps forward of human thought and information of new experimental discoveries marvels spo. Read more 
The Latest Scientific and Medical Discoveries Will Put an End to the Term Infection Dr. Jeffrey Bland Presents New Paradigm Lifestyle Medicine at Integrative Healthcare Sym. Read more 
Late research leaps forward in Psychiatry Ventures list Nicol Ferrier and associates at Newcastle University have demonstrated that a progesterone and glucocorticoid receptor opponent enhanc. Read more 
Special article medical ethics in icu patients conflicts and their resolution anaesthesia
The discovery of the first chemical to prevent the death of brain tissue in a neurodegenerative disease has been hailed as the turning point in the fight against Alzheimers disease.
But scientists say a resulting medicine could treat Alzheimers Parkinsons Huntingtons and other diseases.
In tests on mice the Medical Research Council showed all brain cell death from prion disease could be prevented.
The research team at the Medical Research Council Toxicology Unit based at the University of Leicester focused on the natural defence mechanisms built into brain cells. 
When a virus hijacks a brain cell it leads to a buildup of viral proteins. Cells respond by shutting down nearly all protein production in order to halt the viruss spread.
However many neurodegenerative diseases involve the production of faulty or misfolded proteins. These activate the same defences but with more severe consequences. 
The misfolded proteins linger and the brain cells shut down protein production for so long that they eventually starve themselves to death. 
This process repeated in neurons throughout the brain can destroy movement or memory or even kill depending on the disease.
This process is thought to take place in many forms of neurodegeneration so safely disrupting it could treat a wide range of diseases. 
The researchers used a compound which prevented those defence mechanisms kicking in and in turn halted neurodegeneration.
It is rare to get cautious scientists keen to describe a study in mice as a turning point in treating Alzheimers. 
It is early science a lot can go wrong between a drug for mice and a drug for humans and the only published data is for prion disease not even Alzheimers. 
It is the first time that any form of neurodegeneration has been completely halted so it is a significant landmark. It shows that the process being targeted has serious potential.
If this can be successfully developed which is not guaranteed the prize would be huge. 
In Parkinsons the alphasynuclein protein goes wrong in Alzheimers its amyloid and tau in Huntingtons its the Huntingtin protein.
But the errant protein is irrelevant here as the researchers are targeting the way a cell deals with any misfolded protein.
It means one drug could cure many diseases and that really would be something to get excited about.
The study published in Science Translational Medicine showed mice with prion disease developed severe memory and movement problems. They died within weeks. 
Whats really exciting is a compound has completely prevented neurodegeneration and thats a first.
This isnt the compound you would use in people but it means we can do it and its a start.
She said the compound offered a new pathway that may well give protective drugs and the next step was for drug companies to develop a medicine for use in humans.
Prof Malluccis lab is also testing the compound on other forms of neurodegeneration in mice but the results have not yet been published.
Side effects are an issue. The compound also acted on the pancreas meaning the mice developed a mild form of diabetes and lost weight.
Any human drug would need to act only on the brain. However this gives scientists and drug companies a starting point.
David Allsop professor of neuroscience at Lancaster University described the results as very dramatic and highly encouraging but cautioned that more research was needed to see how the findings would apply to diseases such as Alzheimers and Parkinsons.
It will be important for these findings to be repeated and tested in models of other neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimers disease.
Tony Blair says he accepts full responsibility as the Iraq Inquiry report concludes the former PM overstated Saddam Husseins threat and sent UK troops to war in with wholly inadequate plans for the aftermath.
This image shows multiple microfluidic sites in a single system that can be used to conduct many experiments simultaneously.
This picture shows a microfluidic device for continuous sorting of white blood cells for detection of inflammatory conditions.
A microscopic image of endothelial cells suspended in a central region of a microfluidic device showing the initial stages in the formation of a network of vessels.
Media can only be downloaded from the desktop version of this website.
With the recent launch of MITsInstitute for Medical Engineering and Science MIT News examines research with the potential to reshape medicine and health care through new scientific knowledge novel treatments and products better management of medical data and improvements in healthcare delivery. 
To understand the progression of complex diseases such as cancer scientists have had to tease out the interactions between cells at progressively finer scales from the behavior of a single tumor cell in the body on down to the activity of that cells inner machinery.
To foster such discoveries mechanical engineers at MIT are designing tools to image and analyze cellular dynamics at the micro and nanoscale. Such tools including microfluidics membrane technology and metamaterials may help scientists better characterize and develop therapies for cancer and other complex diseases. 
New medical discoveries depend on engineering advances in realtime multifunctional imaging and quantitative analysis says Nicholas Fang an associate professor of mechanical engineering. 
Fang is developing new imaging tools from metamaterials materials engineered to exhibit properties not normally found in nature. Such materials may be designed as superlenses that bend and refract light to image extremely small objects. For example Fang says that todays best imaging tools can capture signaling between individual neurons which may appear as a fuzzy plume of neurotransmitters. A superlens in contrast would let scientists see individual neurotransmitter molecules at the scale of a few nanometers. Such acuity he says would allow scientists to identify certain chemical transmitters that are directly related to particular diseases. 
Metamaterials may also help scientists manipulate cells at the microscale. Fang is exploring the use of metamaterials as optical antennae to improve a technique known as optogenetics. This technique developed in and pioneered by MITs Ed Boyden the Benesse Career Development Associate Professor of Research in Education involves genetically engineering proteins to respond to light. Using various colors of light scientists may control the activity or expression of such proteins to study the progression of disease. However researchers have found that the technique requires a large amount of light to prompt a response risking overheating or damaging the proteins of interest. 
To solve this problem Fang and his colleagues are looking to metamaterials to design tiny optical receivers similar to radio antennae. Such receivers would attach to a given protein boosting its receptivity to light and thereby requiring less light to activate the protein. The project is in its initial stages Fang says his group is now seeking materials that are compatible with proteins and other biological tissues. 
MIT researchers are also developing tools to sort individual cells part of an effort to provide simple costeffective diagnostic tools for certain diseases. Rohit Karnik an associate professor of mechanical engineering is approaching cell sorting from a variety of directions. His lab is fabricating microfluidic or labonachip devices chips as small as a dime that efficiently sort cells separating out those of interest from a sample of blood or biological fluid. 
Karniks group employs nanofabrication techniques to etch tiny precisely patterned channels into small squares of polymer. The arrangement of the channels directs fluid capturing cells of interest via cell rolling a phenomenon by which cells roll to one side of a channel attracted by a walls surface coating. The device is a relatively simple passive cellsorter that Karnik says may efficiently sort out material such as white blood cells cells that may quickly be counted to identify conditions such as sepsis and inflammation. 
Karnik is also developing small membranes punctured with microscopic pores. Each pore is a few nanometers wide small enough to let individual DNA molecules through. By passing an electric current through the nanopore the researchers can measure certain characteristics of a DNA molecule such as its size and the presence of any additional proteins bound to it. 
Such membrane technology may drastically simplify the process of sizing DNA molecules and mapping DNA modifications which are critical for understanding gene regulation and the dynamics of cellular machinery now a lengthy process that involves expensive benchtop instruments. Instead Karnik says nanopore membranes may be a faster cheaper alternative that could work with single DNA molecules with no loss of information from DNAamplification steps. 
Researchers are investigating microfluidics not only as a means to sort cells but as a way of replicating whole biological environments at the microscale. 
We use microfluidics to develop more realistic models of organs and human physiology so that we can look at for example how a tumor cell interacts with other cells in the local environment says Roger Kamm the Cecil and Ida Green Distinguished Professor of Biological and Mechanical Engineering. 
Kamm and his colleagues have developed a microfluidic chip that contains tiny channels and reservoirs in which they can seed various cell types. The group is using the device to study how cancer spreads through the body. Cancer becomes metastatic when tumor cells break off from a primary tumor and cross through a blood vessel wall and into the bloodstream. Kamm is using the groups microfluidic designs to mimic the metastatic process and identify agents to prevent it. 
To replicate the lining of a blood vessel Kamm seeds one channel in the chip with endothelial cells. In a neighboring channel he injects a gel mimicking the bodys extracellular matrix. The group can introduce tumor cells into the gel along with other chemical agents. In the controlled setup they can monitor the behavior of tumor cells and the conditions in which the cells penetrate the endothelial lining in order to enter a blood vessel. 
This allows us to put cells in close proximity so they can signal with each other in a more realistic fashion Kamm says. 
Compared with conventional cancerscreening techniques the microfluidic technique more closely resembles natural processes in the body Kamm says. For example pharmaceutical companies tend to test potential drugs in large batches injecting a drug into tiny isolated wells containing tumor cells. That works well to test for drugs that kill the tumor but not so well for identifying drugs that can prevent metastatic disease.
What were finding is that cells behave completely differently when you have a realistic environment with cells communicating with different cell types and when a cell is in a threedimensional matrix as opposed to when you have a single cell type inside a well on a twodimensional rigid surface Kamm says. Highthroughput systems probably miss a lot of potentially good drugs and they also identify drugs that fail at subsequent stages of testing.
Karnik who has collaborated with Kamm on a few labonachip designs sees such devices and other engineering tools as a key connection in pushing medical discoveries and effective therapies forward.
A clinician might say I need to know whether the patient has this disease or that disease and the biologist would say Oh in order to do that you need to measure molecules A B and C and its up to the engineers to figure out how to do it Karnik says. Thats our key role bridging in between.
May i know rate of Cell Sorting Ltrs min or mlmin or mlmin or cells min.
can it be used as a Dialysis for bio toxin or kidney failure or sorting Sickle cells from blood or virus from blood.
At Health Discoveries youll find natures bestkept secret foods and nutritional supplements for natural cures breakthrough medical discoveries against disease 
You can browse our site for help with chronic pain or symptoms that wont go away.
Twenty First century natural medicine that is so simple and straight forward. Caroline M.
However these treatments are not widely available yet and we will keep you posted on their progress
Please browse our site for MANY foods natural cures as well as nutritional supplements that have been shown to prevent or help recovery from disease.
We post natural options for chronic diseases foods and nutritional supplements you can use SAFELY with your medications. Many of natures health discoveries have helped people reverse the symptoms of their incurable diseases.
system and against tumors and whats natural thats being studied for ALS Lou 
These Nobel Prizewinning natural discoveries are not yet typically prescribed by doctors so it is up to you to try them.
Medications add a toxic LOAD that eventually catches up with you. So the less you need the better. WhyYou may feel off not because you are sick but because ALL meds 
On one ridge stand scientists clutching discoveries rich with possibility along another are physicians reaching for therapies to alleviate their patients suffering. Between them runs an abyss its floor strewn with abandoned drug candidates and failed clinical trials.
Into this chasm ventured two unsuspecting Harvard Medical School neurobiology professors Clifford Woolf and Bruce Bean. After years of collaboration the scientists wanted to use their experience in deciphering the neurophysiology of pain to develop a new generation of analgesics. Joining forces with a group of neurobiologists and clinicians they sought venture capital. In the group launched Solace Pharmaceuticals with a plan to translate several key discoveries into new drugsand to bridge the gaps between bench and bedside basic and applied science academia and the pharmaceutical industry.
Neither Woolf nor Bean had attempted anything like this before and they found that the journey from idea to drug carried a steeper learning curve and more stepsseeking a patent licensing the technology raising money for further testing among many othersthan either had anticipated. Nevertheless their plan seemed to proceed flawlessly and they quickly identified a compound that relieved pain in rats. Then came the giant hurdle of translation to human clinical trials.
The results were beautifully clear says Woolf. The drug didnt work in humans.
And academics are ill equipped to traverse that valley alone. Medical schools arent set up to do smallscale proofofprinciple human clinical trials much less largescale ones and scientists arent used to navigating regulatory issues says Jeffrey Flier dean of HMS. Those capacities lie in industry.
But the road can be treacherous for the pharmaceutical industry as well. Nine of ten potential medicines entering clinical trials fail. Highprofile latestage drug failures have cost Big Pharma billions of dollars and prompted the industry to seek new innovative approaches to drug discovery and development. These approaches include closer collaborations with academic institutions from which says Flier most of the fundamental discoveries come.
Meanwhile many brilliant universitybased discoveries with true drugdevelopment potential just get left on the pages of medical journals says Frances Jensen an HMS professor of neurology and director of epilepsy research at Childrens Hospital Boston. At the basic science level scientists might do great research get their results published in a highprofile journal and then move on to the next fundamental experiment. Their discovery just sits on a shelf. Nobody picks it up and nobody takes the next step of translation.
Even when promising ideas get noticed universities lack the resources and knowhow to develop them. The continued shrinking of research dollars adds more pressure to an already competitive process. And industry is cutting budgets as well.
These forces have created what one HMS official calls a perfect storm. But the School is creating shelters for those willing to brave the tempest.
Around the time that Solace halted clinical trials of the pain medication that Woolf and Bean had developed the National Institutes of Health was unveiling an initiativeeventually expected to surpass million a yearto address the very issues that had caused the researchers grief. Universities and medical centers around the country began to vie for a share of the funds with the hope of using them to create clinical and translational science centers or CTSCs designed to ease the journey from discovery to therapy.
In Flier had barely settled in his new position as dean of HMS when he learned that the NIH would be phasing out the general clinical research center grants historically awarded to Harvards major teaching hospitals. Instead HMS would have to apply for funding to create a CTSC to be shared with its hospital affiliates and the rest of the University. Flier pulled together a team that under the leadership of Lee Nadler crafted a winning proposal for a fiveyear .million award for such a center now known as Harvard Catalyst.
Were still a long way from even a basic grasp of the mechanisms that underlie most human diseases Flier says. Even when we have that understanding as we do with cystic fibrosis for example its not an easy leap to therapies. Turning discoveries into effective treatments is daunting even before you encounter issues in funding conflict of interest regulation or a host of other arenas.
To help bridge that gap in the past few years Flier created two new postsdean for clinical and translational research held by Nadler and executive dean for research held by William Chin both of whom brought significant experience in translational research and human clinical experimentation.
Medical schools have at their heart a desire to help patients says Chin. We focus on basic researchusing such model systems as mice zebrafish and fruit fliesbecause we need this information for enough insight to learn what leads to human disease in the first place. But remember one of our primary goals is to alleviate human suffering caused by disease and stopping at basic research would leave us short of that goal. So while we dont require scientists to take a translational approach we encourage them to think about it. Were also working to make the process easier for those who do.
Sometimes adds Nadler the hardest step is the first one. My colleagues who are basic scientists often tell me Id really like to pursue translational research. But I dont know what the question should be or how to proceed to the answer.
Chin agrees that collaboration is key to the Schools translational research initiatives. We want to foster more productive multidisciplinary interdepartmental and crossinstitutional work and team formation he says. We believe this will lead to more innovation and creativity.
But that goal bumps up against another hurdle to translational researchthe culture of science. When basic scientists have a translatable discovery Jensen says they generally have to hand that discovery over to a translation scientist and then to a clinician. She adds that the incentives in academic medicinejournal publications grants awards promotionsoften reward individuals rather than teams. In contrast translational and clinical work require more collaboration. Its hard she says for translational researchers to show their added value and get credit for their work.
Part of the solution Nadler says is to evolve the culture and incentives. What we need is a precise question a team of investigators with the diverse skills to solve the problem the required tools and technologies and incentives to bring people from disparate disciplines together. If we say we need an answer to a specific problem and then provide pilot funding for that research he says we give collaborations more focus and means.
As part of its incentivebuilding program Harvard Catalyst provides oneyear pilot grants for investigations that carry a high risk of failure yet offer big payoffs if successful. But theres a catch says Nadler. You cant work with anyone youve worked with before and you must reach across the University system to find a collaborative partner. In three funding cycles thus far the program has awarded grants for innovative projects aimed at for example engineering resistance to epileptic seizures identifying biomarkers for Alzheimers disease and pinpointing neural indicators of dyslexia in infants.
Harvard Catalyst has also introduced practical courses in clinical research and translational medicine including a weeklong introduction to clinical investigation offered several times a year and more advanced classes. Several affiliated hospitals offer training as well.
Through such initiatives says Chin were creating a new breed of investigator. Basic scientists are engaged in learning about disease and physicians are gaining backgrounds in basic science.
Another program that provides critical assistance to foster and advance translational research at HMS is the Technology Development Accelerator Fund launched and operated by Harvards Office of Technology Development. Fueled by donations raised from philanthropic sources the Accelerator Fund is a grantbased program that enables investigators to bridge the often insurmountable development gap in order to establish proofofprinciple and to transform promising earlystage inventions into viable candidates for development commercialization and clinical application. The Accelerator Fund has provided seed funding for projects at the level of approximately each.
Our primary motivation is to accelerate the development of promising new inventions that might otherwise languish for lack of support and validation and to ensure that theyre expeditiously translated for the public good says Isaac Kohlberg the Universitys chief technology development officer. We cant predict or pick winners with certainty. Its all about planting the right seeds nurturing the seedlings encouraging them to blossom and weeding when necessary. Every now and then well be rewarded with a prizewinning flower but we need to seed and cultivate constantly.
Jensen had no such assistance when she ventured into the foreign landscape of translational medicine two decades ago on a search for a new drug to control seizures in newborns. She had long been fascinated by synaptic plasticityhow synapses or the connections between neurons grow with experience. Now she wanted to apply her knowledge to heal injuries to the infant brain.
Such an approachtranslating findings on rodent brains into aids for human infantsrequires a delicate pairing of basic researcher and clinician. But in my department as in many departments the clinicians dont know many of the basic scientists all that well Jensen says. The gulf between the laboratory and clinic researcher and physician and animal model and human patient is a major obstacle in the translational journey. Yet increasingly people on both sides of the gap are working to bridge it.
As clinical medicine advances and as diagnostic tools such as biomarkers and genetics continue their rapid evolution well discover new areas of science ones that you have to go to the bench to study Jensen says. In some cases were discovering that some pathways involved in one disease process are surprisingly also important in another seemingly unrelated disease processor as Jensens work on controlling seizures in infants shows that a drug intended for one disease may be effective against a vastly different disease.
Medications that control seizures in adults for example work only half the time in infants. From research in animal models Jensen knew that antiseizure drugs work by targeting inhibitory synapses. But infant brains have fewer inhibitory and more excitatory synapses than adult brains do. If you give babies a drug that targets inhibitory receptors Jensen says youll find they dont have enough receptors for the drug to work.
A number of laboratories had shown that lowering the number of chloride receptors inside infant brain cells causes them to respond to a drug that targets inhibitory synapses. It turned out that bumetanide a longused federally approved diuretic targets chloride receptors in the kidney. These receptors also are found in human brains with the numbers found in infant brains surpassing those in adult brains. To win the U.S. Food and Drug Administrations approval for repurposing this drug for infant epilepsy Jensen and her colleagues had to prove that the drug targeted neural chloride receptors in animal brains and then show that such receptors were also in the human brain.
Jensens team then encountered the first of several regulatory hurdles that precede clinical trialsthe institutional review board or IRB which ensures patient safety. Because Jensens trial would involve three Harvard hospitals Brigham and Womens Childrens and Massachusetts Generalit needed approvals from three separate IRBs. It took about months Jensen recalls. That process has since been streamlined through a combined IRB thanks to Harvard Catalyst.
Jensen hopes to tap this eased process when a new mechanism she is investigating one that blocks the progression to epilepsy moves from animal to human studies. But since this mechanism might be a new rather than repurposed agent yet more stepsinvolving for instance medicinal chemistry toxicology and drug metabolismmay be required. For those steps academic institutions which rarely have the needed expertise or infrastructure often need to contract with industry.
Randall King and Daniel Finley stumbled upon those limitations while shepherding a new molecule one that helps rid human brain cells of the misfolded proteins implicated in Alzheimers and other neurodegenerative diseases through the gauntlet needed to prove its investment value to potential industry collaborators.
King and Finley were exploring why ubiquitin a small regulatory protein that normally helps neurons dispose of misfolded proteins sometimes fails. Wayward proteins accumulate forming the signature plaques of neurodegenerative diseases. Finley an HMS professor of cell biology and King an HMS associate professor of cell biology discovered that in cell cultures the enzyme Usp slows the degradation of an Alzheimers diseaselinked protein. So the researchers began to hunt for a Usp inhibitor.
They worked with ByungHoon Lee an HMS research fellow in cell biology who using the Schools Institute of Chemistry and Cell BiologyLongwood screening facility developed a highthroughputscreening assay to search for molecules that inhibited only Usp. The strongest candidate christened IU easily entered both mouse and human cells in cultures and boosted ubiquitins beneficial activity. Although the results were good they werent attractive enough for investors. Pharmaceutical companies tend to have a weak appetite for risk says King.
To make their invention more viable for development and commercialization the researchers needed to demonstrate that the molecule could penetrate neurons. And they needed to boost the molecules potency. Those steps required more medicinal chemistry than they could provide. It was a perfect project for the Accelerator Fund. Kohlberg who oversees the program says this early stage of technology development is where many promising university technologies run aground. The Accelerator Fund enables early innovations to achieve preliminary validation he says and selects earlystage technologies that manifest significant translational promise.
King and Finley now have a compound that not only can cross the bloodbrain barrier but is also ten times more potent than the previous compound. That work made the innovation more attractive to potential industry partners says King. As a result OTD identified potential partners held discussions with a number of industry groups and recently concluded a major agreement with a biotech company Proteostasis Therapeutics for the development and commercialization of this technology.
This progress would have been impossible without the Accelerator Fund Kohlberg says. The fund not only supported the project enabling the key medicinal chemistry work to be done but also devised an effective intellectual property strategy and undertook a dedicated marketing and licensing program. All of these steps culminated in our now having a strong industry partner thats committed to the commercial development of this technology and that can we hope take it to the clinic in the near future. If all goes well Finley points out it will still be two to three years before the scientists can test their molecule in human studies.
Even after their disappointing first attempt Clifford Woolf and Bruce Bean wanted to see their work result in pain medications. As they pondered new approaches they came up with chili peppers.
The time seemed ripe to pursue an industry partner for development and commercialization. This time OTD identified and held discussions with a number of established companies with relevant expertise. Those led to the negotiation and conclusion of a major licensing and collaboration agreement with Endo Pharmaceuticals which will navigate the regulatory hurdles when it comes time to apply for safety trials in humans possibly next year.
The imperatives of translational medicine and the importance of collaborating with industry are inextricably related Kohlberg says. With rare exception he adds its only through licensing and collaboration with industry partners that earlystage inventions made in academic labs can reach fruition and culminate in a new FDAapproved drug. And such a culmination in therapy represents in many ways the ultimate fulfillment of our core mission to serve the public interest.
Another important feature of agreements with industry relates to intellectual property rights and the right to publish. When industry funds research in our laboratories we expect to be able to publish those findings says Flier. Industry has traditionally sought to sequester results as proprietary as often and as long as possible. More and more though industry realizes its important to publish results and researchers acknowledge the need for patent protection.
The right to disseminate research results is sacrosanct Kohlberg says. In all of our agreements with industry we make certain that the right to publish is inviolableit is absolutely protected and guaranteed.
Previously industry and academia each believed it could do everything alone. In the past partnering with industry was a bit frowned upon Jensen recalls. But actually its a necessary relationship. How else can drugs get to patients Medical schools arent set up to make drugs.
As for Woolf and Beans first failed trek not all was lost. In the reverse of a spinout Woolf brought one of Solaces programs back into his laboratory for further development. The path across the formerly formidable Valley of Death might just turn out to be a twoway street.
It wasnt precisely his bout with mononucleosis that led David Knipe into a career in virology. By the time Knipe now the Higgins Professor of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics at HMS lost a semester of college to the illness he had been primed to become a virologist by a string of inspiring courses and a stint in a leadingedge laboratory. But the combination of illness and inspiration sealed that deal involving Knipe in academiabased innovation and now with the aid of Harvards Office of Technology Development a licensing agreement with a manufacturer that may produce a vaccine for herpes simplex the cause of genital herpes.
In his HMS laboratory Knipe developed a replicationdeficient form of the virus. In mice the mutant virus triggered an immune response without reproducing. Knipes hope is to develop a vaccine for humans based on the mutant. That taskand the clinical trials to test his innovations safety and efficacywill fall to Sanofi Pasteur. This vaccine needs to be tested in people says Knipe. Without this agreement that wouldnt happen.
At HMS such academicindustry partnerships are carefully tended to guard against conflicts of interest whether real or perceived. The Schools policy aims to ensure that academic research remains robust and unfettered and that industry involvement remains collaborative and fruitful. Overall the goal is to translate ideas into powerful new medicines devices and technologies a goal underscored by Jeffrey Flier dean of Harvard Medical School when he announced a revamped conflictsofinterest policy last summer.
Neither academia nor industry alone is equipped to develop the therapies so desperately needed to eradicate diseases worldwide says Flier. For this reason we are committed to encouraging collaborations between our faculty and industry while ensuring the transparency of those relationships through a policy that further codifies and enforces our high standards.
The revised policy upholds the ability of HMS faculty to license technology to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies hold equity in such companies serve on their scientific boards and establish new ventures. At the same time the policy prohibits academicindustry links that might adversely influence the integrity of such ties. Faculty can no longer accept for example personal gifts or any travel and meals from industry other than those received during allowed activities. As of July faculty members are barred from participating in industry speakers bureaus or accepting any speaking engagement that would dictate the faculty members presentation content.
In the realm of medical education the policy reinforces restrictions barring sales and marketing representatives of medical drug device or supply companies from accessing medical students. Continuing medical education courses may no longer be sponsored by a single company and industry advertising and exhibits at continuing medical education events are restricted.
The conflictsofinterest policy addresses the challenges of academicindustry collaborations says Flier while maintaining the Schools commitment to advancing research in human diseases. To review the policy visit the Integrity in Academic Medicine website.
The decadeslong drought in antibiotic discovery could be over after a breakthrough by US scientists.
Their novel method for growing bacteria has yielded new antibiotics with one deemed very promising.
The last new class of antibiotics to make it to clinic was discovered nearly three decades ago.
The study in the journal Nature has been described as a gamechanger and experts believe the antibiotic haul is just the tip of the iceberg.
The heyday of antibiotic discovery was in the s and s but nothing found since has made it into doctors hands. 
Since then microbes have become incredibly resistant. Extensively drugresistant tuberculosis ignores nearly everything medicine can throw at it.
The researchers at the Northeastern University in Boston Massachusetts turned to the source of nearly all antibiotics soil.
The team created a subterranean hotel for bacteria. One bacterium was placed in each room and the whole device was buried in soil.
It allowed the unique chemistry of soil to permeate the room but kept the bacteria in place for study.
The scientists involved believe they can grow nearly half of all soil bacteria. 
Chemicals produced by the microbes dug up from one researchers back yard were then tested for antimicrobial properties.
The study shows uncultured bacteria do harbour novel chemistry that we have not seen before. That is a promising source of new antimicrobials and will hopefully help revive the field of antibiotic discovery.
Tests on teixobactin showed it was toxic to bacteria but not mammalian tissues and could clear a deadly dose of MRSA in tests on mice.
The researchers also believe that bacteria are unlikely to develop resistance to teixobactin.
It targets fats which are essential for building the bacterial cell wall and the scientists argue it would be difficult to evolve resistance.
Here is an antibiotic that essentially evolved to be free of resistance said Prof Lewis. We havent seen that before.
It has several independent different tricks that minimise resistance development.
There are limits to the discovery of the antibiotic teixobactin which has yet to be tested in people.
It works on only Grampositive bacteria this includes MRSA and mycobacterium tuberculosis.
It cannot penetrate the extra layer of protection in Gramnegative bacteria such as E. coli.
But even if their method does mark a new era of antibiotic discovery there are big questions.
Sir Alexander Fleming who discovered penicillin warned of the dangers of resistance back in his Nobel prize speech in . 
Yet even now prescriptions in England are rising with half deemed inappropriate and contributing to the problem. 
But can we be trusted with new antibiotics Or will we make the same mistakes again
Prof Laura Piddock from the University of Birmingham said it was an amazing and exciting study and that the tool could be a gamechanger.
The discovery of this new antibiotic from a new class with a novel mode of action is very exciting. 
I hope that teixobactin will now enter clinical development as the basis for a new drug to treat infections.
It could leave many common infections untreatable and make many staples of modern medicine including surgery chemotherapy and organ transplants impossible.
He said it was vital the antibiotic pipeline was reopened if we are to avert a publichealth disaster.
Dr James Mason from Kings College London said the antibiotic pipeline had all but dried up.
Its impressive what theyve done. From one soil sample theyve found one new antibiotic and their approach opens up a new route to a huge number of potential products. 
They have shown that screening soil microorganisms for antibiotics is unfinished business.
However he cautioned that although the new antibiotic had exciting properties it was too early to conclude it would entirely avoid the development of resistance.
The researchers said their discovery was similar to vancomycin. It was discovered in the s but it took until the late s for resistance to develop.
They argue the delay in resistance is an inherent property but vancomycin was kept back and not used that extensively Dr Mason said.
Tony Blair says he accepts full responsibility as the Iraq Inquiry report concludes the former PM overstated Saddam Husseins threat and sent UK troops to war in with wholly inadequate plans for the aftermath.
Aging is the biggest risk factor for developing a cataract. Do you know what else puts you at risk
Aphasia a disorder that disrupts the ability to communicate currently affects an estimated million people in the U.S.
Scleroderma affects connective tissue which supports the skin and internal organs. Find out about the many types symptoms and treatment.
NIH is the nations medical research agency supporting scientific studies that turn discovery into health.
Francis S. Collins M.D. Ph.D. provides leadership for the institutes and centers that make up the NIH.
NIH is the largest source of funding for medical research in the world creating hundreds of thousands of highquality jobs.
Scientists conduct research on NIH campuses across the U.S. as part of our Intramural Research Program.
NIH provides training opportunities internally as well as at universities and other institutions across the U.S.
The central recruitment point of access to all NIH jobs and training opportunities
Part of a Presidential focus aimed at revolutionizing our understanding of the human brain.
A one stop shop helping manage support conduct study and evaluate teambased research.
NIHsupported research has had a major positive impact on nearly all of our lives.
Learn about the Enhancing the Diversity of the NIHfunded Workforce program.
Australianbased Naked and Afraid contestant spills the beans about his time on the show.
We caught up with Sean Dwyer the youngest captain ever in the history of the Deadliest Catch. 
Meet the men who brew their shine and the local authorities who try to keep them honest.
Deep in the Alaskan wilderness lives a newly discovered family who was born and raised wild.
Survival Week is back with seven days of survival shows featuring the toughest and most enduring allstar survivors.
Adam and Jamie take you behind the scenes of this final season from the new show opens to multiple virtual reality experiences
Discover how telescope and microscope technology is helping us improve all aspects of life.
In this episode Future Now investigates whether the modern world is improving our standard of living or potentially causing us harm.
In the s there was a major breakthrough in dental understanding and it was the beginning of toothpaste floss and the toothbrush
What is the price for glory When the fame fans money training support teams and victories are gone what happens next
Life after Sport hosted by John Eales will deconstruct the highs lows pitfalls perils and science of elite athletes as they struggle to make the transitions from normal human to superhuman and back.
Deep down south at the end of the world we join ET off the wild coast of Tasmania. See all new Saltwater Heroes only on Discovery Channel.
In the premiere episode of Saltwater Heroes Andrew Ettingshausen travels to the Northern Territory
Joel Lambert inserts himself into the rugged mountains of New Zealands South Island.
Alexis Conran joins Brad Friedal at the Tottenham Hotspur training ground to learn how to take the perfect penalty.
Jeremy Wade investigates the sinking on the Amazon of the Sobral Santos more than years ago were the passengers dragged under by powerful unseen attackers
Nik sets off on the first part of his epic tightrope walk heading up an degree incline high above the Chicago River.
After completing his first walk NIk Wallenda took some time out before attempting the daring blindfolded second walk.
Watch as Nik Wallenda walks the tightrope between two skyscrapers in Chicago blindfolded and unthethered.
Hear from Nik Wallenda immediately after he completed his tightrope walk between Chicago skyscrapers.
Relive the key moments during Nik Wallendas epic tightrope walk between three Chicago skyscrapers.
Learn about the challenges ahead and how Nik Wallendas family history has brought him to a rooftop in Chicago.
Before hitting the Bering Sea all crew members must complete a coastguard survival training course.
We join Captain Sig Hansen as he puts the Northwestern crew including his own daughter Mandy through a safety drill.
Captain Sig Hansen talks about the effects of the U.S. Government shutdown and how the Japanese market set the schedule.
How do the Deadliest Catch captains deal with having a film crew aboard their boats Captains Scott Campbell and Sig Hansen tell us how they balance fishing and filming.
Join visionary tree whisperer Pete Nelson as he designs private escapes for those with a passion to reconnect with nature and awaken their inner child.
Join visionary tree whisperer Pete Nelson as he designs private escapes for those with a passion to reconnect with nature and awaken their inner child.
Join visionary tree whisperer Pete Nelson as he designs private escapes for those with a passion to reconnect with nature and awaken their inner child.
Watch the construction of Sao Paulos Arena Corinthians in this timelapse video.
See a timelapse video of the refurbishment of Rio de Janeiros iconic Maracan Stadium the site of the countrys last World Cup defeat on home turf.
Find out more about the huge engineering projects being undertaken throughout Brazil in the leadup to the FIFA World Cup.
Bear Grylls presents amazing clips of extreme survivors who escape a frozen death by the narrowest of margins. See more videos like this on Bear Grylls Extreme Survival Caught On Camera.
A zookeeper in California who gets attacked by a rampaging elephant. See more videos like this on Bear Grylls Extreme Survival Caught On Camera.
Cam Zinc an extreme downhill mountain biker from Nevada USA gets it wrong when attempting a jump across a canyon. The headcam footage makes this amazing experience absolutely incredible viewing.
The mystery of Flight has exposed crucial missing links in aviation security and technology.
After two days exposed to the cold Sebastien Boucher was suffering from hypothermia. He created a handwarmer with a zip bag and a surprising ingredient.
Former British Army Captain Ed Stafford was the first person ever to walk the length of the Amazon River but surviving completely alone on a deserted island is his biggest adventure yet.
Former British Army Captain Ed Stafford was the first person ever to walk the length of the Amazon River but surviving completely alone on a deserted island is his biggest adventure yet.
After years in prison Nelson Mandela smuggled a message to his daughter she read out in public.
After years in prison Mandela was released. Millions of people were watching to share the moment.
Nelson Mandelas message was one of forgiveness. Jesse Jackson South African President FW de Klerk and others talk about his legacy.
After Nelson Mandela was released from prison he picked up where he had left off years before and committed himself trying to delivery democracy.
When Nelson Mandela was put on trial he took the opportunity to get his message across that he was prepared to die for freedom.
When Sebastian Boucher was lost in the snow. When night fell he was unable to light a fire.Bear shows how he could have succeeded with just a battery and a chewing gum.
Bear Grylls shows how to create rock climbing equipment from base jumping equipment something that would have helped the base jumping survivors as they climbed without safety.
Lost in a dense and dark jungle how do you attract the attention of a rescue helicopter
Bear Grylls reveals the true life stories of ordinary people trapped in extraordinary situations.
Bear Grylls reveals the true life stories of ordinary people trapped in extraordinary situations.
Nik Wallenda acknowledges the dangers of crossing the Grand Canyon on a wire but he believes that he is control of everything except mother nature.
Daredevil Nik Wallenda gives the lowdown on everything he needs to successfully cross the Grand Canyon on a high wire.
Nik Wallenda will risk everything when he attempts to cross the Grand Canyon without a tether.
Join the Gallery team as they buy and sell some of the most unusual items in America.
Join Bear Grylls as he reveals the true life stories of ordinary people trapped in extraordinary situations of survival.
Follow an Army Route Clearance Company as they seek out and destroy Improvised Explosive Devices in southern Afghanistan.
To commemorate the th Anniversary of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy we investigate the incident that rocked the world.
Join survival expert Bear Grylls as he takes on some of the harshest locations on the planet and shares invaluable survival strategies along the way.
Jeremy Wade uses his unparalleled knowledge to dive into an unknown realm the vastness of the worlds oceans.
Find out the science behind the best experiments and stunts posted on the Internet.
Australia is headed for a severe flu season with doctors advising people take precautions to protect themselves from getting sick and spreading the virus.
Mental health advocates are warning that vulnerable people could fall through the gaps because reforms to the sector are being rolled out too quickly. All mental health services funded by the Federal Health Department will soon be commissioned through the recently established primary health networks. But Mental Health Australia is worried that existing services will close before new arrangements are in place.
As NSW and Qld face off in the opening match of this years State of Origin series former State of Origin greats Steve Mortimer and Steve Ella have called on rugby league to put an end to alcohol sponsorship of the sport.
One in six Australians have gone hungry in the past year according to Foodbanks annual survey. The nations longest serving food relief organisation says the hunger plight is reaching crisis point with per cent of welfare agencies and community groups not having enough food to meet demand.
The Australian Population Research Institute says there are too many doctors in Australia which is why GP costs to the government are rising. Other researchers say the rise in costs is reasonable given the ageing population and more chronic conditions while GPs say its not that there are too many doctors thats the problem its that some areas of cities are oversupplied while rural and remote areas are not well serviced. 
There are calls for greater regulation of the IVF industry following last nights Four Corners story about the dismally low success rates of fertility treatment in women aged over . Medical legal experts and some of the pioneers of the IVF technology last night issued warnings about the proliferation of socalled snakeoil treatments within fertility clinics. Today fertility specialists have hit back saying Australia is an international leader in infertility research and treatment and is governed by a code of practice thats the envy of the world. But observers of health policy and fertility technology say the industry has undergone enormous change and regulation hasnt kept pace.
A spike in the use of the drug ice on Tasmanias North West coast prompted the state government to invest in programs including the funding of a new bed residential drug and alcohol rehabilitation centre. The first graduate of the week program is starting study so that he can eventually return as a worker to help other people transform their lives.
Twentythree Victoria Police employees have taken their own lives since which is more than four times as many as those killed on active duty. Victorias Chief Police Commissioner Graham Ashton commissioned a review into police mental health last year and now says he will implement all recommendations.
An estimated one in five Australians suffer from some form of chronic pain. Many use prescription medications including opioids like morphine to help get them through the day. However a new study has revealed that using opioid painkillers to treat chronic nerve pain can actually make the pain worse and last much longer.
The latest arthritis research is recommending ways to slash Australias health budget by hundreds of millions of dollars. The cost to the Government is expected to grow significantly unless more is done to prevent and better manage the condition. Australias peak arthritis body says better treatments for people with the condition including diet changes and exercise routines could save the health system as much as million a year.
Health authorities in the Northern Territory have issued an alert for a potentially fatal mosquitoborne virus. Murray Valley Encephalitis has been detected in chickens on the outskirts of Darwin and while it is considered a rare virus there is no vaccine available.
Aging is the biggest risk factor for developing a cataract. Do you know what else puts you at risk
Aphasia a disorder that disrupts the ability to communicate currently affects an estimated million people in the U.S.
Scleroderma affects connective tissue which supports the skin and internal organs. Find out about the many types symptoms and treatment.
NIH is the nations medical research agency supporting scientific studies that turn discovery into health.
Francis S. Collins M.D. Ph.D. provides leadership for the institutes and centers that make up the NIH.
NIH is the largest source of funding for medical research in the world creating hundreds of thousands of highquality jobs.
Scientists conduct research on NIH campuses across the U.S. as part of our Intramural Research Program.
NIH provides training opportunities internally as well as at universities and other institutions across the U.S.
The central recruitment point of access to all NIH jobs and training opportunities
Part of a Presidential focus aimed at revolutionizing our understanding of the human brain.
A one stop shop helping manage support conduct study and evaluate teambased research.
NIHsupported research has had a major positive impact on nearly all of our lives.
Learn about the Enhancing the Diversity of the NIHfunded Workforce program.
This image shows multiple microfluidic sites in a single system that can be used to conduct many experiments simultaneously.
This picture shows a microfluidic device for continuous sorting of white blood cells for detection of inflammatory conditions.
A microscopic image of endothelial cells suspended in a central region of a microfluidic device showing the initial stages in the formation of a network of vessels.
Media can only be downloaded from the desktop version of this website.
With the recent launch of MITsInstitute for Medical Engineering and Science MIT News examines research with the potential to reshape medicine and health care through new scientific knowledge novel treatments and products better management of medical data and improvements in healthcare delivery. 
To understand the progression of complex diseases such as cancer scientists have had to tease out the interactions between cells at progressively finer scales from the behavior of a single tumor cell in the body on down to the activity of that cells inner machinery.
To foster such discoveries mechanical engineers at MIT are designing tools to image and analyze cellular dynamics at the micro and nanoscale. Such tools including microfluidics membrane technology and metamaterials may help scientists better characterize and develop therapies for cancer and other complex diseases. 
New medical discoveries depend on engineering advances in realtime multifunctional imaging and quantitative analysis says Nicholas Fang an associate professor of mechanical engineering. 
Fang is developing new imaging tools from metamaterials materials engineered to exhibit properties not normally found in nature. Such materials may be designed as superlenses that bend and refract light to image extremely small objects. For example Fang says that todays best imaging tools can capture signaling between individual neurons which may appear as a fuzzy plume of neurotransmitters. A superlens in contrast would let scientists see individual neurotransmitter molecules at the scale of a few nanometers. Such acuity he says would allow scientists to identify certain chemical transmitters that are directly related to particular diseases. 
Metamaterials may also help scientists manipulate cells at the microscale. Fang is exploring the use of metamaterials as optical antennae to improve a technique known as optogenetics. This technique developed in and pioneered by MITs Ed Boyden the Benesse Career Development Associate Professor of Research in Education involves genetically engineering proteins to respond to light. Using various colors of light scientists may control the activity or expression of such proteins to study the progression of disease. However researchers have found that the technique requires a large amount of light to prompt a response risking overheating or damaging the proteins of interest. 
To solve this problem Fang and his colleagues are looking to metamaterials to design tiny optical receivers similar to radio antennae. Such receivers would attach to a given protein boosting its receptivity to light and thereby requiring less light to activate the protein. The project is in its initial stages Fang says his group is now seeking materials that are compatible with proteins and other biological tissues. 
MIT researchers are also developing tools to sort individual cells part of an effort to provide simple costeffective diagnostic tools for certain diseases. Rohit Karnik an associate professor of mechanical engineering is approaching cell sorting from a variety of directions. His lab is fabricating microfluidic or labonachip devices chips as small as a dime that efficiently sort cells separating out those of interest from a sample of blood or biological fluid. 
Karniks group employs nanofabrication techniques to etch tiny precisely patterned channels into small squares of polymer. The arrangement of the channels directs fluid capturing cells of interest via cell rolling a phenomenon by which cells roll to one side of a channel attracted by a walls surface coating. The device is a relatively simple passive cellsorter that Karnik says may efficiently sort out material such as white blood cells cells that may quickly be counted to identify conditions such as sepsis and inflammation. 
Karnik is also developing small membranes punctured with microscopic pores. Each pore is a few nanometers wide small enough to let individual DNA molecules through. By passing an electric current through the nanopore the researchers can measure certain characteristics of a DNA molecule such as its size and the presence of any additional proteins bound to it. 
Such membrane technology may drastically simplify the process of sizing DNA molecules and mapping DNA modifications which are critical for understanding gene regulation and the dynamics of cellular machinery now a lengthy process that involves expensive benchtop instruments. Instead Karnik says nanopore membranes may be a faster cheaper alternative that could work with single DNA molecules with no loss of information from DNAamplification steps. 
Researchers are investigating microfluidics not only as a means to sort cells but as a way of replicating whole biological environments at the microscale. 
We use microfluidics to develop more realistic models of organs and human physiology so that we can look at for example how a tumor cell interacts with other cells in the local environment says Roger Kamm the Cecil and Ida Green Distinguished Professor of Biological and Mechanical Engineering. 
Kamm and his colleagues have developed a microfluidic chip that contains tiny channels and reservoirs in which they can seed various cell types. The group is using the device to study how cancer spreads through the body. Cancer becomes metastatic when tumor cells break off from a primary tumor and cross through a blood vessel wall and into the bloodstream. Kamm is using the groups microfluidic designs to mimic the metastatic process and identify agents to prevent it. 
To replicate the lining of a blood vessel Kamm seeds one channel in the chip with endothelial cells. In a neighboring channel he injects a gel mimicking the bodys extracellular matrix. The group can introduce tumor cells into the gel along with other chemical agents. In the controlled setup they can monitor the behavior of tumor cells and the conditions in which the cells penetrate the endothelial lining in order to enter a blood vessel. 
This allows us to put cells in close proximity so they can signal with each other in a more realistic fashion Kamm says. 
Compared with conventional cancerscreening techniques the microfluidic technique more closely resembles natural processes in the body Kamm says. For example pharmaceutical companies tend to test potential drugs in large batches injecting a drug into tiny isolated wells containing tumor cells. That works well to test for drugs that kill the tumor but not so well for identifying drugs that can prevent metastatic disease.
What were finding is that cells behave completely differently when you have a realistic environment with cells communicating with different cell types and when a cell is in a threedimensional matrix as opposed to when you have a single cell type inside a well on a twodimensional rigid surface Kamm says. Highthroughput systems probably miss a lot of potentially good drugs and they also identify drugs that fail at subsequent stages of testing.
Karnik who has collaborated with Kamm on a few labonachip designs sees such devices and other engineering tools as a key connection in pushing medical discoveries and effective therapies forward.
A clinician might say I need to know whether the patient has this disease or that disease and the biologist would say Oh in order to do that you need to measure molecules A B and C and its up to the engineers to figure out how to do it Karnik says. Thats our key role bridging in between.
May i know rate of Cell Sorting Ltrs min or mlmin or mlmin or cells min.
can it be used as a Dialysis for bio toxin or kidney failure or sorting Sickle cells from blood or virus from blood.
Scientists have suggested that levels of the protein called clusterin rise many years before symptoms of Alzheimers disease first appear. 
An early test for the condition could allow those patients could have early treatment and make improvements to their lifestyle to minimise the impact of the disease. 
The study conducted by the Institute of Psychiatry at Kings College London also found that very high levels of the protein may be linked with more rapid and severe memory loss. 
Patient groups said the prospect of a blood test for Alzheimers disease was the holy grail for researchers in this area and the latest findings bring this a step closer. 
Alzheimers disease is the most common form of dementia in Britain and affects almost people. This is expected to double by as the population ages. 
The ethics of any blood test to identify those in the very early stages of Alzheimers disease would need to be examined carefully as there is no cure for the condition. 
The researchers compared blood samples taken from people with either Alzheimers disease mild impairment or normal brain function. 
The found that clusterin levels were linked with Alzheimers symptoms and higher levels indicated more rapid and severe memory loss and brain shrinkage as shown on brain scans. 
Experiments with mice showed that the protein is produced in increasing amounts with age and is also linked to the development of plaques in the brain which interfere with cell communications systems. The clusterin surrounded the plaques. 
It is not known if the plaques are the cause of Alzheimers disease or a sign of it but this research has shown that the body produces greater quantities of clusterin along with the plaques and it may be an attempt to protect the brain from the build up of the plaques. 
Therefore high levels of clusterin which can be detected in a blood sample could be used as an early warning sign that the body is already fighting Alzheimers disease. 
Using patients in America they also found that clusterin levels can be used to predict Alzheimers onset up to years before symptoms appear. Clusterin levels were measured and compared with brain scans taken from the same patients years later. 
This revealed that the patients with high clusterin had high levels of plaques in the brain ten years later and this is an indication of the condition. 
The researchers have not yet established what level of clusterin is normal and at what exact level it would indicate Alzheimers was developing and this is the subject of further investigations. 
A primary goal in Alzheimers research is to develop an inexpensive easily administered test to accurately detect and track the progression of this devastating disease. 
Identifying clusterin as a blood biomarker that may be relevant to both the pathology and symptoms of the disease may bring us closer to this goal. 
Other studies have linked the gene involved in the production of clusterin to Alzheimers disease. 
Research is the only answer to dementia yet our scientists remain in desperate need of funds. Investing in research now will bring the treatment breakthroughs we so urgently need in a world where million live with this devastating condition. 
After episodes experiments myths and explosions Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman will say goodbye to the show .
Get up close and personal with some of the creepiest creatures on earth snakes.
Follow four brave teams of expert snake hunters who have the guts and skills to chase down the worlds most poisonous snakes and collect their venom.
All good things must come to an end. But before the final season of MYTHBUSTERS is shown heres a look at the BEST OF MYTHBUSTERS.
Discovery Channel turns the spotlight on China with a weekly hour special showcasing the vast countrys wildlife technological wonders architectural .
Motor mastermind Richard Rawlings and mechanical prodigy Aaron Kaufman of Gas Monkey Garage search for derelict classic cars. 
Marc Priestley is crossing the planet to put his F skills to the test to prove he can turn any vehicle any where into a winner
Join the HOW ITS MADE crew as they visit the birthplaces of your favorite cars revealing their inner workings and gorgeous exteriors with access to .
RAILROAD ALASKA follows the elite crew of workers as they battle ferocious weather and treacherous terrain to keep the State of Alaskas critical .
Welcome to Tanana Alaska a village on the very edge of civilization less than miles from the Arctic Circle.
Watching us from space satellites orbit the Earth at miles an hour capturing images of our world that are breathtaking and sometimes bizarre. 
This image shows multiple microfluidic sites in a single system that can be used to conduct many experiments simultaneously.
This picture shows a microfluidic device for continuous sorting of white blood cells for detection of inflammatory conditions.
A microscopic image of endothelial cells suspended in a central region of a microfluidic device showing the initial stages in the formation of a network of vessels.
Media can only be downloaded from the desktop version of this website.
With the recent launch of MITsInstitute for Medical Engineering and Science MIT News examines research with the potential to reshape medicine and health care through new scientific knowledge novel treatments and products better management of medical data and improvements in healthcare delivery. 
To understand the progression of complex diseases such as cancer scientists have had to tease out the interactions between cells at progressively finer scales from the behavior of a single tumor cell in the body on down to the activity of that cells inner machinery.
To foster such discoveries mechanical engineers at MIT are designing tools to image and analyze cellular dynamics at the micro and nanoscale. Such tools including microfluidics membrane technology and metamaterials may help scientists better characterize and develop therapies for cancer and other complex diseases. 
New medical discoveries depend on engineering advances in realtime multifunctional imaging and quantitative analysis says Nicholas Fang an associate professor of mechanical engineering. 
Fang is developing new imaging tools from metamaterials materials engineered to exhibit properties not normally found in nature. Such materials may be designed as superlenses that bend and refract light to image extremely small objects. For example Fang says that todays best imaging tools can capture signaling between individual neurons which may appear as a fuzzy plume of neurotransmitters. A superlens in contrast would let scientists see individual neurotransmitter molecules at the scale of a few nanometers. Such acuity he says would allow scientists to identify certain chemical transmitters that are directly related to particular diseases. 
Metamaterials may also help scientists manipulate cells at the microscale. Fang is exploring the use of metamaterials as optical antennae to improve a technique known as optogenetics. This technique developed in and pioneered by MITs Ed Boyden the Benesse Career Development Associate Professor of Research in Education involves genetically engineering proteins to respond to light. Using various colors of light scientists may control the activity or expression of such proteins to study the progression of disease. However researchers have found that the technique requires a large amount of light to prompt a response risking overheating or damaging the proteins of interest. 
To solve this problem Fang and his colleagues are looking to metamaterials to design tiny optical receivers similar to radio antennae. Such receivers would attach to a given protein boosting its receptivity to light and thereby requiring less light to activate the protein. The project is in its initial stages Fang says his group is now seeking materials that are compatible with proteins and other biological tissues. 
MIT researchers are also developing tools to sort individual cells part of an effort to provide simple costeffective diagnostic tools for certain diseases. Rohit Karnik an associate professor of mechanical engineering is approaching cell sorting from a variety of directions. His lab is fabricating microfluidic or labonachip devices chips as small as a dime that efficiently sort cells separating out those of interest from a sample of blood or biological fluid. 
Karniks group employs nanofabrication techniques to etch tiny precisely patterned channels into small squares of polymer. The arrangement of the channels directs fluid capturing cells of interest via cell rolling a phenomenon by which cells roll to one side of a channel attracted by a walls surface coating. The device is a relatively simple passive cellsorter that Karnik says may efficiently sort out material such as white blood cells cells that may quickly be counted to identify conditions such as sepsis and inflammation. 
Karnik is also developing small membranes punctured with microscopic pores. Each pore is a few nanometers wide small enough to let individual DNA molecules through. By passing an electric current through the nanopore the researchers can measure certain characteristics of a DNA molecule such as its size and the presence of any additional proteins bound to it. 
Such membrane technology may drastically simplify the process of sizing DNA molecules and mapping DNA modifications which are critical for understanding gene regulation and the dynamics of cellular machinery now a lengthy process that involves expensive benchtop instruments. Instead Karnik says nanopore membranes may be a faster cheaper alternative that could work with single DNA molecules with no loss of information from DNAamplification steps. 
Researchers are investigating microfluidics not only as a means to sort cells but as a way of replicating whole biological environments at the microscale. 
We use microfluidics to develop more realistic models of organs and human physiology so that we can look at for example how a tumor cell interacts with other cells in the local environment says Roger Kamm the Cecil and Ida Green Distinguished Professor of Biological and Mechanical Engineering. 
Kamm and his colleagues have developed a microfluidic chip that contains tiny channels and reservoirs in which they can seed various cell types. The group is using the device to study how cancer spreads through the body. Cancer becomes metastatic when tumor cells break off from a primary tumor and cross through a blood vessel wall and into the bloodstream. Kamm is using the groups microfluidic designs to mimic the metastatic process and identify agents to prevent it. 
To replicate the lining of a blood vessel Kamm seeds one channel in the chip with endothelial cells. In a neighboring channel he injects a gel mimicking the bodys extracellular matrix. The group can introduce tumor cells into the gel along with other chemical agents. In the controlled setup they can monitor the behavior of tumor cells and the conditions in which the cells penetrate the endothelial lining in order to enter a blood vessel. 
This allows us to put cells in close proximity so they can signal with each other in a more realistic fashion Kamm says. 
Compared with conventional cancerscreening techniques the microfluidic technique more closely resembles natural processes in the body Kamm says. For example pharmaceutical companies tend to test potential drugs in large batches injecting a drug into tiny isolated wells containing tumor cells. That works well to test for drugs that kill the tumor but not so well for identifying drugs that can prevent metastatic disease.
What were finding is that cells behave completely differently when you have a realistic environment with cells communicating with different cell types and when a cell is in a threedimensional matrix as opposed to when you have a single cell type inside a well on a twodimensional rigid surface Kamm says. Highthroughput systems probably miss a lot of potentially good drugs and they also identify drugs that fail at subsequent stages of testing.
Karnik who has collaborated with Kamm on a few labonachip designs sees such devices and other engineering tools as a key connection in pushing medical discoveries and effective therapies forward.
A clinician might say I need to know whether the patient has this disease or that disease and the biologist would say Oh in order to do that you need to measure molecules A B and C and its up to the engineers to figure out how to do it Karnik says. Thats our key role bridging in between.
May i know rate of Cell Sorting Ltrs min or mlmin or mlmin or cells min.
can it be used as a Dialysis for bio toxin or kidney failure or sorting Sickle cells from blood or virus from blood.
Scientists have suggested that levels of the protein called clusterin rise many years before symptoms of Alzheimers disease first appear. 
An early test for the condition could allow those patients could have early treatment and make improvements to their lifestyle to minimise the impact of the disease. 
The study conducted by the Institute of Psychiatry at Kings College London also found that very high levels of the protein may be linked with more rapid and severe memory loss. 
Patient groups said the prospect of a blood test for Alzheimers disease was the holy grail for researchers in this area and the latest findings bring this a step closer. 
Alzheimers disease is the most common form of dementia in Britain and affects almost people. This is expected to double by as the population ages. 
The ethics of any blood test to identify those in the very early stages of Alzheimers disease would need to be examined carefully as there is no cure for the condition. 
The researchers compared blood samples taken from people with either Alzheimers disease mild impairment or normal brain function. 
The found that clusterin levels were linked with Alzheimers symptoms and higher levels indicated more rapid and severe memory loss and brain shrinkage as shown on brain scans. 
Experiments with mice showed that the protein is produced in increasing amounts with age and is also linked to the development of plaques in the brain which interfere with cell communications systems. The clusterin surrounded the plaques. 
It is not known if the plaques are the cause of Alzheimers disease or a sign of it but this research has shown that the body produces greater quantities of clusterin along with the plaques and it may be an attempt to protect the brain from the build up of the plaques. 
Therefore high levels of clusterin which can be detected in a blood sample could be used as an early warning sign that the body is already fighting Alzheimers disease. 
Using patients in America they also found that clusterin levels can be used to predict Alzheimers onset up to years before symptoms appear. Clusterin levels were measured and compared with brain scans taken from the same patients years later. 
This revealed that the patients with high clusterin had high levels of plaques in the brain ten years later and this is an indication of the condition. 
The researchers have not yet established what level of clusterin is normal and at what exact level it would indicate Alzheimers was developing and this is the subject of further investigations. 
A primary goal in Alzheimers research is to develop an inexpensive easily administered test to accurately detect and track the progression of this devastating disease. 
Identifying clusterin as a blood biomarker that may be relevant to both the pathology and symptoms of the disease may bring us closer to this goal. 
Other studies have linked the gene involved in the production of clusterin to Alzheimers disease. 
Research is the only answer to dementia yet our scientists remain in desperate need of funds. Investing in research now will bring the treatment breakthroughs we so urgently need in a world where million live with this devastating condition. 
previously paid by the Scheme for the members medical expenses. This is to avoid the member being unjustly
from the Road Accident Fund the Scheme will remain liable for the costs of thetreatment subject to the chosen plan type of the member and will never require
have access to the necessary treatment in the event of a motor vehicle accidentand that the Schemes treatment of RAF claims is consistent with the provisions
some by the Supreme Court of Appeal and the Constitutional Court have been madeagainst Ronald Bobroff and Partners in respect of its excessive and unlawful fees
ordered an inspection of Ronald Bobroff and Partners business and trust accounts
these cases against Ronald Bobroff and Partners because we believe that we have
You havent entered a correct link to your helper.html file for your Hosted Newsroom. Go to Publish and complete the steps.
The requested URL discoveryfithealthwillbecomediscoverylifechannelonjanuary.html was not found on this server.
error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.
Survival Week is back with seven days of survival shows featuring the toughest and most enduring allstar survivors.
Adam and Jamie take you behind the scenes of this final season from the new show opens to multiple virtual reality experiences
Discover how telescope and microscope technology is helping us improve all aspects of life.
In this episode Future Now investigates whether the modern world is improving our standard of living or potentially causing us harm.
In the s there was a major breakthrough in dental understanding and it was the beginning of toothpaste floss and the toothbrush
What is the price for glory When the fame fans money training support teams and victories are gone what happens next
Life after Sport hosted by John Eales will deconstruct the highs lows pitfalls perils and science of elite athletes as they struggle to make the transitions from normal human to superhuman and back.
Deep down south at the end of the world we join ET off the wild coast of Tasmania. See all new Saltwater Heroes only on Discovery Channel.
In the premiere episode of Saltwater Heroes Andrew Ettingshausen travels to the Northern Territory
Joel Lambert inserts himself into the rugged mountains of New Zealands South Island.
Alexis Conran joins Brad Friedal at the Tottenham Hotspur training ground to learn how to take the perfect penalty.
Jeremy Wade investigates the sinking on the Amazon of the Sobral Santos more than years ago were the passengers dragged under by powerful unseen attackers
Nik sets off on the first part of his epic tightrope walk heading up an degree incline high above the Chicago River.
After completing his first walk NIk Wallenda took some time out before attempting the daring blindfolded second walk.
Watch as Nik Wallenda walks the tightrope between two skyscrapers in Chicago blindfolded and unthethered.
Hear from Nik Wallenda immediately after he completed his tightrope walk between Chicago skyscrapers.
Relive the key moments during Nik Wallendas epic tightrope walk between three Chicago skyscrapers.
Learn about the challenges ahead and how Nik Wallendas family history has brought him to a rooftop in Chicago.
Before hitting the Bering Sea all crew members must complete a coastguard survival training course.
We join Captain Sig Hansen as he puts the Northwestern crew including his own daughter Mandy through a safety drill.
Captain Sig Hansen talks about the effects of the U.S. Government shutdown and how the Japanese market set the schedule.
How do the Deadliest Catch captains deal with having a film crew aboard their boats Captains Scott Campbell and Sig Hansen tell us how they balance fishing and filming.
Join visionary tree whisperer Pete Nelson as he designs private escapes for those with a passion to reconnect with nature and awaken their inner child.
Join visionary tree whisperer Pete Nelson as he designs private escapes for those with a passion to reconnect with nature and awaken their inner child.
Join visionary tree whisperer Pete Nelson as he designs private escapes for those with a passion to reconnect with nature and awaken their inner child.
Watch the construction of Sao Paulos Arena Corinthians in this timelapse video.
See a timelapse video of the refurbishment of Rio de Janeiros iconic Maracan Stadium the site of the countrys last World Cup defeat on home turf.
Find out more about the huge engineering projects being undertaken throughout Brazil in the leadup to the FIFA World Cup.
Bear Grylls presents amazing clips of extreme survivors who escape a frozen death by the narrowest of margins. See more videos like this on Bear Grylls Extreme Survival Caught On Camera.
A zookeeper in California who gets attacked by a rampaging elephant. See more videos like this on Bear Grylls Extreme Survival Caught On Camera.
Cam Zinc an extreme downhill mountain biker from Nevada USA gets it wrong when attempting a jump across a canyon. The headcam footage makes this amazing experience absolutely incredible viewing.
The mystery of Flight has exposed crucial missing links in aviation security and technology.
After two days exposed to the cold Sebastien Boucher was suffering from hypothermia. He created a handwarmer with a zip bag and a surprising ingredient.
Former British Army Captain Ed Stafford was the first person ever to walk the length of the Amazon River but surviving completely alone on a deserted island is his biggest adventure yet.
Former British Army Captain Ed Stafford was the first person ever to walk the length of the Amazon River but surviving completely alone on a deserted island is his biggest adventure yet.
After years in prison Nelson Mandela smuggled a message to his daughter she read out in public.
After years in prison Mandela was released. Millions of people were watching to share the moment.
Nelson Mandelas message was one of forgiveness. Jesse Jackson South African President FW de Klerk and others talk about his legacy.
After Nelson Mandela was released from prison he picked up where he had left off years before and committed himself trying to delivery democracy.
When Nelson Mandela was put on trial he took the opportunity to get his message across that he was prepared to die for freedom.
When Sebastian Boucher was lost in the snow. When night fell he was unable to light a fire.Bear shows how he could have succeeded with just a battery and a chewing gum.
Bear Grylls shows how to create rock climbing equipment from base jumping equipment something that would have helped the base jumping survivors as they climbed without safety.
Lost in a dense and dark jungle how do you attract the attention of a rescue helicopter
Bear Grylls reveals the true life stories of ordinary people trapped in extraordinary situations.
Bear Grylls reveals the true life stories of ordinary people trapped in extraordinary situations.
Nik Wallenda acknowledges the dangers of crossing the Grand Canyon on a wire but he believes that he is control of everything except mother nature.
Daredevil Nik Wallenda gives the lowdown on everything he needs to successfully cross the Grand Canyon on a high wire.
Nik Wallenda will risk everything when he attempts to cross the Grand Canyon without a tether.
Join the Gallery team as they buy and sell some of the most unusual items in America.
Join Bear Grylls as he reveals the true life stories of ordinary people trapped in extraordinary situations of survival.
Follow an Army Route Clearance Company as they seek out and destroy Improvised Explosive Devices in southern Afghanistan.
To commemorate the th Anniversary of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy we investigate the incident that rocked the world.
Join survival expert Bear Grylls as he takes on some of the harshest locations on the planet and shares invaluable survival strategies along the way.
Jeremy Wade uses his unparalleled knowledge to dive into an unknown realm the vastness of the worlds oceans.
Find out the science behind the best experiments and stunts posted on the Internet.
Discovery Education offers a broad range of free classroom resources that complement and extend learning beyond the bell.
Foster deeper engagement and opportunities for students to take charge of their own learning with high quality engaging relevant tools designed for todays busy teachers and parents. Explore our programs and contests interactive games puzzleslesson plans videos and more.
Follow the presidential election with online resources videos and live events
Pembrolizumab plus investigational CDtargeting antibody is well tolerated and yields sustained responses.
Adjuvant gemcitabine plus capecitabine outperforms gemcitabine alone in phase III trial.
Even in phase I trials therapies chosen for patients based on biomarkers are associated with higher response rates.
Patients with various solid tumors all deficient in mismatch repair respond to pembrolizumab.
Durable responses seen in one fifth of study patients with advanced treatmentrefractory disease.
Proteogenomics uncovers functional consequences of somatic mutations breast cancer study shows.
HKme recruits the TONSLMMSL DNA repair complex to postreplicative chromatin.
Accumulation of nuclear p driven by loss of autophagy decreases chromatin ubiquitination.
PD blockade with nivolumab was safe and achieved objective responses in patients with lymphoma.
Calcium metabolism gene GPR mediates lenalidomide sensitivity in myelodysplastic syndrome MDS.
MYC and p are critical nodes in chronic myeloid leukemia CML leukemic stem cells.
Pembrolizumab is well tolerated and active in patients with melanoma or NSCLC with brain metastases.
Wednesday was a national day of action for Vice President Bidens Cancer Moonshot initiative during which he hosted a summit at Howard University in Washington DCone of more than events in all states Puerto Rico and Guamand announced new endeavors to support the moonshot. One is a publicprivate partnership between the NCI and to pharmaceutical companies that will allow researchers to obtain and test investigational and approved drugs on an established list instead of negotiating with each company separately. Another is the creation of an Oncology Center of Excellence at the FDA to better coordinate the regulatory review of cancer products.
The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs VA and IBM announced their partnership to help expand access to precision medicine for American veterans with cancer. IBMs Watson for Genomics technology will rapidly scan deidentified DNA sequences from these patients and produce a list of potential therapies ranked on the quality of evidence that VA physicians can use. Watson continuously learns from previous interactions and should facilitate personalized cancer care for veterans.
Foundation Medicine announced plans to release approximately genomic profiles of adult cancers from its FoundationCORE database to the NCIs Genomic Data Commons GDC portal launched in early June. This is the largest dataset of its kind given to the NCI more than doubling the size of the GDC and making the portal an even more comprehensive resource for precision medicine research. FoundationCORE currently holds data from more than clinical cases and will continue evolving over time as new tumor profiles are added through use of the companys clinical assays.
Infinity Pharmaceuticals said it would cut jobs after AbbVie ended a collaboration to develop and commercialize duvelisib a PIK and PIK inhibitor. Last month the Cambridge MAbased company laid off of its staff researchers in the wake of discouraging results from a phase II study of duvelisib in refractory indolent nonHodgkin lymphoma. These additional cuts will leave Infinity with employees who will continue to pursue a phase III study of the drug in relapsedrefractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
San Ramon CAbased Galena Biopharma halted a phase III study of NeuVax after an independent analysis of interim data concluded that the investigational HERtargeting breast cancer vaccine was no better at preventing tumor recurrence than a placebo.
The price of stock in Waltham MAbased Tesaro soared after a phase III study showed that niraparib significantly improved progressionfree survival in BRCAmutant BRCAwildtype and homologous recombinationdeficient patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. Niraparib is an investigational PARP inhibitor and the first in this class of therapies to show benefit in a phase III trial.
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor ibrutinib Imbruvica AbbVie received its fourth Breakthrough Therapy designation from the FDA as well as Orphan Drug status for chronic graftversushost disease GVHD in patients who didnt respond to a systemic therapyusually glucocorticoidsfor the condition. No approved treatments are available for GVHD a common complication of stemcell and bone marrow transplant
Our Duluth medical students dug into their recent onsite experiences with rural health and medicine to present research posters at the Minnesota Rural Health Conference.
The University of Minnesota Medical School is searching for outstanding researchers who are considered national leaders in their field to join our specialized Medical Discovery Teams. This initiative was funded by the State of Minnesota to help us tackle some of the most difficult health issues facing Minnesota.
Driven to discover and committed to advancing health. We are one of the countrys top medical schools with campuses in the Twin Cities and Duluth.
J. Neil Henderson PhD will lead the Medical Discovery Team on health equity rural health access and American Indian health issues starting on August .
Medical School researcher Wendy Gordon PhD has been named a Pew Scholar in the Biomedical Sciences by the Pew Charitable Trust. She joined the Department of Biology Molecular Biology and Biophysics in . Her work focuses on a cells response to mechanical forces.
Susie Nanney PhD is the first representative from the University of Minnesota Medical School to participate in the elite Robert Wood Johnson Health Policy Fellowship. Nanney is a researcher in our Program in Health Disparities Research and her faculty appointment is in the Department Family Medicine Community Health.
Dean Brooks Jackson MD MBA was interviewed by Minnesota Medicine about his plan for excellence in the Medical School and how he leads by example as an active researcher teacher and clinician.
Vanderbilt University is committed to principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action.Vanderbilt Vanderbilt University V Oak Leaf Design Star V Design and Anchor Down are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Vanderbilt University. All rights reserved.
After episodes experiments myths and explosions Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman will say goodbye to the show .
Get up close and personal with some of the creepiest creatures on earth snakes.
Follow four brave teams of expert snake hunters who have the guts and skills to chase down the worlds most poisonous snakes and collect their venom.
All good things must come to an end. But before the final season of MYTHBUSTERS is shown heres a look at the BEST OF MYTHBUSTERS.
Discovery Channel turns the spotlight on China with a weekly hour special showcasing the vast countrys wildlife technological wonders architectural .
Motor mastermind Richard Rawlings and mechanical prodigy Aaron Kaufman of Gas Monkey Garage search for derelict classic cars. 
Marc Priestley is crossing the planet to put his F skills to the test to prove he can turn any vehicle any where into a winner
Join the HOW ITS MADE crew as they visit the birthplaces of your favorite cars revealing their inner workings and gorgeous exteriors with access to .
RAILROAD ALASKA follows the elite crew of workers as they battle ferocious weather and treacherous terrain to keep the State of Alaskas critical .
Welcome to Tanana Alaska a village on the very edge of civilization less than miles from the Arctic Circle.
Watching us from space satellites orbit the Earth at miles an hour capturing images of our world that are breathtaking and sometimes bizarre. 
The microbiome consists of all the microbes living with you at the current time. Its time you got to know them and why you cant easily live without them.
How an extremely accurate noninvasive test for colon cancer began with research with Native Americans in remote Alaskan communities
Mayo infectious disease researchers are using robots to keep dangerous bugs at bay.
Mayo Clinic researchers are working on an alternative liverat least until a transplant is possible.
Premiering During National Donate Life Month the Threepart Series Documents Stories of Heart Transplant Patients at New YorkPresbyterian HospitalColumbia 
Join PR Newswire for Journalists to access all of the free services designated to make your job easier.
In need of subject matter experts for your story Submit a free ProfNet request and find the sources you need. LEARN MORE
List of popular Discovery Health Channel shows ranked from best to worst. This list of the top current and cancelled Discovery Health Channel TV series includes the date when each show first aired as well as which actors starred in the show. The best Discovery Health Channel TV programs of all time include the most viewed shows on Discovery Health Channel as this list covers the entire history of the network. This list is sorted by popularity so the shows with the most votes are at the top of the list. List ranges from Jon Kate Plus to Untold Stories of the E.R. and more. Although television fans in different locations grew up with Discovery Health Channel on different channels most of us got the same shows so dont let your favorite Discovery Health Channel TV shows sink to the bottom of the list The list of top Discovery Health Channel television shown below includes cast creator and premiere date when available. This list contains only TV series on the Discovery Health Channel network even ones that are no longer on the air. Youre able to copy this factual list to build your own just like it rerank it to fit your opinions then publish it to share it on Facebook Twitter or any other social networks you use regularly.
List of Celebrities Whose Parents Were Murdered ranked by fame and popularity. Unfortunately several celebrities have had their parents murdered.
Best of Disneys animated classics ranked and voted on by fans. Walt Disney Studios has produced theatricallyreleased animated movies to date not including films released by Disney but produced by Pixar. The studio began working on short animated features in before moving .
This list of the top current and cancelled Disney Channel TV series includes the date when each show first aired as well as which actors starred in the show. The best Disney Channel TV programs of all time include the most viewed shows on the Disney Channel as this list covers the .
SPOILERS Well that was nuts Are you still recovering like we are The Game of Thrones finale made us cheer squeal use a lot of .
List of popular Discovery Kids shows ranked from best to worst. This list of the top current and cancelled Discovery Kids TV series includes the .
Photobombing usually takes place between a human and another human. That makes sense after all were the only species to have any idea what a camera is and how one works. If any species is going to stick stick their heads into pictures not intended for them its us.However it .
Information and media on this page and throughout Ranker is supplied by Wikipedia Ranker users and other sources. Freebase content is freely licensed under the CCBY license and Wikipedia content is licensed under the GNU Free Documentation license. 
Ranker requires that your browser support JavaScript most of our functions wont work with JavaScript disabled. Proceed at your own risk.
Job Description ApostdoctoralAssociate position is available to study the role of noncoding RNAs long noncoding RNA and microRNAs in cancer prostate and melanoma metabolism in our laboratory at SanfordBurnham Medical Discovery Institute Orlando FL USA. Several putative oncogenic and tumor suppressor noncoding RNAs have been identified Mazar et al Mol. Cell. Biol Wei et al. JID in our .
Discovery Communications. All Rights Reserved. Discovery Animal Planet Science Channel HD Theater ID Velocity Travel Channel TLC Destination America and their respective logos are trademarks of Discovery Communications.
DA Returns Three Notched Road Crozet VA . Delivery Agent Inc. is the seller of all Discovery Channel Store merchandise and is solely responsible for all aspects of your purchase.
Our community based Article Clinic offers culturally competent care for children and adults in a state of the art setting. We provide services to meet a broad scope of medical and behavioral health needs through individual and family interventions that support strengths and independence and encourage family involvement.
It is our mission to provide quality care and assistance for psychosocial problems that is accessible affordable and confidential. We believe that psychological well being is a vital component of overall health.
The Discovery Health Center is recognized by NCQA as a Level III PatientCentered Medical Home PCMH meeting their highest level of recognition.The Patient Centered Medical Home is a health care setting that facilitates partnerships between individual patients their families and their personal physicians. Care is facilitated by registries information technology health information exchange and other means to assure that patients get the indicated care when and where they need and want it in a culturally and linguistically appropriate manner. 
The Center for Discovery takes the health of its patients seriously. Not only do we provide top rated quality care we do so in healthy buildings. The Discovery Health Center is the first healthcare facility in the United States to earn the U.S. Green Building Councils USGBC Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED Certification meaning that the building itself is more efficient than other conventional healthcare buildings. This is achieved through theuse of passive solar heating and geothermal cooling andwithout the use of fossil fuels. The interior finishes and furnishings do not contain volatile organic compounds VOCs in order to minimize downstream environmental health effects to the people who visit and work in the facility.
through eClinicalWorks featuring leading edge technology to promote healthcare and allow our patients convenient access of their medical records. Click Here to Download Information on How to Signup for Patient Portal
Our community based Article Clinic offers culturally competent care for children and adults in a state of the art setting. We provide services to meet a broad scope of medical and behavioral health needs through individual and family interventions that support strengths and independence and encourage family involvement.
It is our mission to provide quality care and assistance for psychosocial problems that is accessible affordable and confidential. We believe that psychological well being is a vital component of overall health.
The Discovery Health Center is recognized by NCQA as a Level III PatientCentered Medical Home PCMH meeting their highest level of recognition.The Patient Centered Medical Home is a health care setting that facilitates partnerships between individual patients their families and their personal physicians. Care is facilitated by registries information technology health information exchange and other means to assure that patients get the indicated care when and where they need and want it in a culturally and linguistically appropriate manner. 
The Center for Discovery takes the health of its patients seriously. Not only do we provide top rated quality care we do so in healthy buildings. The Discovery Health Center is the first healthcare facility in the United States to earn the U.S. Green Building Councils USGBC Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED Certification meaning that the building itself is more efficient than other conventional healthcare buildings. This is achieved through theuse of passive solar heating and geothermal cooling andwithout the use of fossil fuels. The interior finishes and furnishings do not contain volatile organic compounds VOCs in order to minimize downstream environmental health effects to the people who visit and work in the facility.
through eClinicalWorks featuring leading edge technology to promote healthcare and allow our patients convenient access of their medical records. Click Here to Download Information on How to Signup for Patient Portal
Located in Oaksterdam California DeAngelos Harborside Health Center HHC provides megapounds and dozens of strains of tasty cannabinoidtested medical marijuana to hundreds of patients per day.
His medical marijuana dispensary has nearly registered medical marijuana patients some reports say he sold upwards of million worth of medical marijuana last year.
Ever since he founded HHC in DeAngelo has gone beyond the pharmacy model that most medical marijuana dispensaries use. Many medical marijuana dispensaries are just bare rooms with a budtender a few jars of medical marijuana some medibles and not much else.
DeAngelo changed all that by creating a beautiful holistic health center education center and community meetup place at Harborside. With acupuncture yoga organic foods lowincome subsidies counseling and other services DeAngelo was an early pioneer of the holistic medical marijuana dispensary movement.
Discovery didnt discover DeAngelo first. Mediawise hes probably the bestknown medical marijuana dispensary owner. Hes already been covered by news organizations around the world as well as North American media powerhouses such as The New York Times The Washington Post CNN the Associated Press The Wall Street Journal NPR and Fortune Magazine.
Of course it isnt so much that marijuana is a great medicine that has attracted the attention of Discovery Channel or any of these other media reporters. Its the money. Its also the sexy nature of a wildly successful business model confronted with conflict. Thats why they call it Weed Wars.
Insider word is that Weed Wars takes us in through the back door of the medical marijuana dispensary business to show us what its like to source sort test grade and provide medical marijuana.
Many Big Buds readers already know all about that. In fact one of our readers who grows the finest connoisseur medical marijuana using Sensi Grow and Connoisseur base nutrients along with Advanced Nutrients supplements that boost medical marijuana taste aroma yield and THC percentages regularly supplies medical marijuana to HHC.
Steve is a class act the grower reports. He is all about the patients making sure the meds are clean strong affordable safe. He holds growers accountable. One time I brought a couple of kilos of fine Kush meds to him but he had it tested like he does everything before he sells it and they came back and said it had a tiny infestation of gray mold. So he wouldnt pay me a penny for it. I was financially hurt by that but I respect that. The man cares about peoples health more than profits.
Discovery Channel hired Snoop Dogg to do the theme song for Weed Wars. Looking forward to it Snoop and glad that a major network is paying attention to medical marijuana Steve DeAngelo and Harborside Health Center.
Discovery Channel Harborside Health Center Kush medibles Medical Marijuana Snoop Dogg THC Weed Wars
Reproduction whole or in part of any words images or any other material from any BigBudsMag.Com pages without first obtaining explicit written permission from BigBudsMag.com is strictly prohibited and is theft of intellectual property that could result in criminal or civil charges.
Discovery Communications. All Rights Reserved. Discovery Animal Planet Science Channel HD Theater ID Velocity Travel Channel TLC Destination America and their respective logos are trademarks of Discovery Communications.
DA Returns Three Notched Road Crozet VA . Delivery Agent Inc. is the seller of all Discovery Channel Store merchandise and is solely responsible for all aspects of your purchase.
Add articles you want to save to this folder by clicking the Add to Collection icon that appears with every article.
Your collection will not be saved on this site once your current session expires after an hour of inactivity. We will not save any of your browsing history.
The URL above is unique to your current collection. You can share it with others but it will not be shown anywhere on this site.
Click the Add to Collection folder next to articles you want to revisit later. Then come back to this folder to see your list of articles along with the URL to a permanent page weve created so you can view your articles at any time.
Be sure to come here and copy your URL before you leave the site as your collection will not be saved after you leave.
Robert Pearl MD executive director and CEO of The Permanente Medical Group and MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group discusses how integrated care coupled with stcentury technology transforms the way Kaiser Permanente members receive care and interact with their providers enabling superior health outcomes. 
Its no longer about just good doctors and good hospitals. Its really about connectivity its about data its about information its about speed to treatment Dr. Pearl said.
The documentary allows viewers to follow physicians through the care process as they demonstrate how health IT allows them to coordinate care to treat a patient over the course of one day starting with Doug Van Zoeren MD service chief Adult Medicine MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group District of Columbia and Suburban Maryland. 
Theres no doubt that IT and integration make me a better physician. Having that information available having the ability to communicate with my colleagues and with my patients in this way very much facilitate the care process Dr. Van Zoeren said. 
Viewers then see Kaiser Permanente MidAtlantic States member Kate Tiernys experience as she moves through the integrated and ITpowered health care organization from a telemedicine visit with Maurice Cates MD regional medical director Musculoskeletal Service Line MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group to an Xray with Bruce Wollman MD regional medical director Imaging Services MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group.
Tierny says Kaiser Permanentes personal health record My Health Manager on kp.org allows her to conveniently manage her health and connect with her caregivers. 
Coordinating care is so easy. The ability to manage my own health record online to book appointments to cancel appointments its just so convenient Tierny said.
More than . million members actively use My Health Manager on kp.org to engage their care teams and become more actively involved in their health care. In the last six months percent of registered members have signed on to My Health Manager five or more times. In Kaiser Permanente members used My Health Manager to view more than . million test results send nearly million emails to their doctors offices refill more than million prescriptions and schedule . million appointments.
Aneesh Chopra the United States chief technology officer and David Blumenthal MD former national coordinator for health IT point to Kaiser Permanente throughout the documentary as a model for coordinated highquality care enabled by health IT.
KP HealthConnect which is the largest private electronic health record in the world enables all of Kaiser Permanentes more than physicians to electronically access the medical records of all . million Kaiser Permanente members nationwide.
From electronic health records to home health monitoring tools to wifi in emergency medicine health IT is transforming the way important medical information is gathered stored and shared. According to many experts health IT stands poised to revolutionize the American health care system making it more efficient more effective and more focused on meeting the needs of patients.
Kaiser Permanente ShareNews views and moves from one of Americas leading health care providers and notforprofit health plans.
Pembrolizumab plus investigational CDtargeting antibody is well tolerated and yields sustained responses.
Adjuvant gemcitabine plus capecitabine outperforms gemcitabine alone in phase III trial.
Even in phase I trials therapies chosen for patients based on biomarkers are associated with higher response rates.
Patients with various solid tumors all deficient in mismatch repair respond to pembrolizumab.
Durable responses seen in one fifth of study patients with advanced treatmentrefractory disease.
Proteogenomics uncovers functional consequences of somatic mutations breast cancer study shows.
HKme recruits the TONSLMMSL DNA repair complex to postreplicative chromatin.
Accumulation of nuclear p driven by loss of autophagy decreases chromatin ubiquitination.
PD blockade with nivolumab was safe and achieved objective responses in patients with lymphoma.
Calcium metabolism gene GPR mediates lenalidomide sensitivity in myelodysplastic syndrome MDS.
MYC and p are critical nodes in chronic myeloid leukemia CML leukemic stem cells.
Pembrolizumab is well tolerated and active in patients with melanoma or NSCLC with brain metastases.
Wednesday was a national day of action for Vice President Bidens Cancer Moonshot initiative during which he hosted a summit at Howard University in Washington DCone of more than events in all states Puerto Rico and Guamand announced new endeavors to support the moonshot. One is a publicprivate partnership between the NCI and to pharmaceutical companies that will allow researchers to obtain and test investigational and approved drugs on an established list instead of negotiating with each company separately. Another is the creation of an Oncology Center of Excellence at the FDA to better coordinate the regulatory review of cancer products.
The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs VA and IBM announced their partnership to help expand access to precision medicine for American veterans with cancer. IBMs Watson for Genomics technology will rapidly scan deidentified DNA sequences from these patients and produce a list of potential therapies ranked on the quality of evidence that VA physicians can use. Watson continuously learns from previous interactions and should facilitate personalized cancer care for veterans.
Foundation Medicine announced plans to release approximately genomic profiles of adult cancers from its FoundationCORE database to the NCIs Genomic Data Commons GDC portal launched in early June. This is the largest dataset of its kind given to the NCI more than doubling the size of the GDC and making the portal an even more comprehensive resource for precision medicine research. FoundationCORE currently holds data from more than clinical cases and will continue evolving over time as new tumor profiles are added through use of the companys clinical assays.
Infinity Pharmaceuticals said it would cut jobs after AbbVie ended a collaboration to develop and commercialize duvelisib a PIK and PIK inhibitor. Last month the Cambridge MAbased company laid off of its staff researchers in the wake of discouraging results from a phase II study of duvelisib in refractory indolent nonHodgkin lymphoma. These additional cuts will leave Infinity with employees who will continue to pursue a phase III study of the drug in relapsedrefractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
San Ramon CAbased Galena Biopharma halted a phase III study of NeuVax after an independent analysis of interim data concluded that the investigational HERtargeting breast cancer vaccine was no better at preventing tumor recurrence than a placebo.
The price of stock in Waltham MAbased Tesaro soared after a phase III study showed that niraparib significantly improved progressionfree survival in BRCAmutant BRCAwildtype and homologous recombinationdeficient patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. Niraparib is an investigational PARP inhibitor and the first in this class of therapies to show benefit in a phase III trial.
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor ibrutinib Imbruvica AbbVie received its fourth Breakthrough Therapy designation from the FDA as well as Orphan Drug status for chronic graftversushost disease GVHD in patients who didnt respond to a systemic therapyusually glucocorticoidsfor the condition. No approved treatments are available for GVHD a common complication of stemcell and bone marrow transplant
PARISLONDON French drugmaker Sanofi said on Wednesday it had struck a research and development deal with the U.S. Army to speed up the development of a vaccine against the mosquitoborne Zika virus.
Reuters Health In school cafeterias with vinyl banners depicting vegetable superhero characters more young children take vegetables from the salad bar according to a new study.
Reuters Health Due to shortages of a radioactive substance used in exercise stress tests more heart patients have needed complex invasive procedures new research shows.
GENEVA A neurological condition linked to the mosquitoborne Zika virus could be targeted globally with existing national programs for detecting polio a paper coauthored by World Health Organization researchers said on Tuesday.
Sleep apnea is thought to affect at least percent of men and percent of women but many estimates put that number higher because people with sleep apnea dont tend to realize they have it. Interactive
All quotes delayed a minimum of minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays. 
The owner of this website www.cmedia.net has banned your access based on your browsers signature becbccddfua.
Discovery Communications says its combining the fitness programming of its FitTV channel with the reallife stories aired by the recently defunct Discovery Health.
The company announced Monday that Discovery Fit Health cable network will launch on Feb. . It will be found on the channel currently occupied by FitTV which is available in approximately million homes.
The network says Discovery Fit Healths program slate will include forensic mysteries medical stories baby and pregnancy programming and stories of extreme life conditions.
The former Discovery Health network was scrapped to make room for the new Oprah Winfrey Network which claimed that channel when it signed on Jan. .
If you are looking for Discovery Health medical scheme please call .
If you are looking for a medical aid broker please call HLC Financial Services on .
The newsletters published on this website are to inform Discovery Health and Vitality members of benefits and rewards. The newsletters are written by HLC Financial Services FSP ORG and not by Discovery Health. Any Discovery Health member is welcome to subscribe to the email newsletter by emailing addy addy dscvrynws c z This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.
Discovery Life Channel Begins January on the Current Discovery Fit Health Platform 
From the shocking to the scandalous the informative to the enlightening heartbreaking to heartwarming Discovery Life Channels programming has something relatable for the voyeur in all of us said Jane Latman general manager of Discovery Life Channel. Between our bold content unflappable talent and authentic storytelling we are excited to debut Discovery Life in January as a mustwatch television destination filled with humor and heart in the Discovery portfolio. 
WAYS TO KILL YOUR MOTHER Premieres Thursday January at c Experience the endearing and enduring relationship between a brave yearold Irish mom and her daredevil son Baz Ashmawy as they grab life by the horns on a unique journey to experience extreme adventures together. Theyre the kind of stunts that keep a parent up at night with worry but in WAYS TO KILL YOUR MOTHER mom is along for the ride. From skydiving to alligator wrestling this sixpart series follows Baz as he sets sail across the globe with a bucket list designed to test his mums mettle. 
BODY BIZARRE Premieres Saturday January at c BODY BIZARRE features stories of people living with the most mysterious and incredible medical anomalies focusing on their total transformation of mind body and soul while undergoing treatment. Each onehour episode uncovers cases from across the globe of real and really astonishing medical abnormalities that continue to stump the best doctors and experts. Cases include a young Nepalese man born with three legs to a bizarre spinal defect that left a Brazilian mans head facing upside down and a rare syndrome that causes a Swedish family to feel no pain. BODY BIZARRE provides unprecedented access into the lives of these individuals and explains the science behind each condition all the while celebrating the remarkable spirit of perseverance. 
Join PR Newswire for Journalists to access all of the free services designated to make your job easier.
In need of subject matter experts for your story Submit a free ProfNet request and find the sources you need. LEARN MORE
Discovery Life is a channel owned by Discovery Communications an American company that runs digital and satellite television network. The channel is focused on playing different life related shows. Discovery Life was formerly known as Discovery Fit Health and it was launched in after the merger of Discovery Health and FitTV. Due to both channels having success in the fitness and health department both channels took some of their favorite features and combined the two in one channel. In the year households in America had direct access to Discovery Life.
Discovery Health was a very popular channel before Communications decided to pull the plug on the channel and instead replace it with The Oprah Winfrey Network which came on air January st . Since Discovery Health seized to exist some of the popular shows that played on that channel regularly needed to move to a different channel spot. FitTV was the perfect match for all the healthy living shows which led to all the good shows from Discovery Health going to FitTV. 
The name of the Discovery communications channel Discovery Fit Health lasted until January th when the name was rebranded again into Discovery Life in FitTVs Channel space.
The Sexual Health Channel explores the functions and dysfunctions of the reproductive system. Learn about maintaining a healthy sex life and avoiding and treating sexual problems.
The Male Reproductive System Channel answers your questions about parts of the male anatomy and how they function. Learn how the different parts of the male reproductive system work in this section. See more 
The Female Reproductive System Channel answers your questions about parts of the female anatomy and how they function. Learn how the different parts of the female reproductive system work in this section. See more 
Contraception is the voluntary prevention of pregnancy. Learn about various forms of birth control in this section. See more 
Sexual dysfunction comes in many forms and can affect both men and women. Learn about sexual dysfunction and maintaining sexual health. See more 
Sexuality deals with humans perceptions and behaviors as sexual beings. Learn about both the biological and emotional aspects of sexuality in this section. See more 
Health Medical Scheme is aware of an article published in The Star newspaper of August on one of our members Ms Thobeka Xaba and our support for her duringmisrepresents Discovery Health Medical Schemes support for Ms Xaba during hersixyear long battle with cancer and we would like to give the correct facts of
Health Medical Scheme has always put Ms Xabas health first having funded hercancer treatment in full for the past six years until earlier in the year when
that the care our members receive is the best and most appropriate. We hence referred Ms Xabas case to leadingacademic oncology specialists to review and give advice on whether the new treatmentshould be covered. The feedback from this panel was clear that there is no publishedclinical evidence that the drug would be effective or safe for this patientscondition and that there are other safe and effective treatments which would be
the decision was not a financial one but one that places Ms Xabas health asexpensive treatment regimens as alternatives that we would cover in full. Contrary
treatment plan recommended by our independent specialist panel will be funded in
Health Medical Scheme offers the most comprehensive cancer treatment programme of
members and do what is right for them. This means ensuring that members receiveappropriate medical treatment according to the benefits on their plan. In caseswhere exceptions are made these decisions about funding must be made accordingglobally healthcare professionals and health systems are continuously workingtype of treatments will be effective for which conditions. This is particularly
Well done Discovery My wife suffered from a very rare cancer of the colon and Discovery paid in full for her treatment even when new unproven medicine was used by the Oncologist in association with Discovery. She passed away after and a half years of treatment.Thank you Discovery for providing not only excellent treatment but also peace of mind to the family Dr PF de Wet Bluewater Bay Port Elizabeth
You havent entered a correct link to your helper.html file for your Hosted Newsroom. Go to Publish and complete the steps.
Outreach Engagement Launches Million Connect and Collaborate Grants Program
In the wake of the West African Ebola outbreak Assistant Professor Marcel Yotebieng details the need for a coordinated and robust global action plan to tackle this crisis.
We Canadians like to boast about our health care system. But over the years since Canada became a country we have also been leaders in medical research playing a pivotal role in the advancement of modern medicine in a variety of key areas. Here we take a look at five notable Canadian medical discoveries and innovations.
Some controversy exists over who deserves credit but the discovery of a successful way to produce insulin and use it to treat diabetic patients was a Canadian one. Working at the University of Toronto in the early s Frederick Banting and Charles Best along withcollaborators J J R Macleod and James Collip developed a way ofextracting insulin from a donorpancreas.After a series of successful tests on diabetic dogs they were subsequently able to refine theirtechnique and utilize it effectively on humans.
Before the development of an effective insulin treatment the outlook for most diabetes patients was grim. The disease carried with it a mortality rate of over per cent and the only moderately successful therapy at the time was a strict diet that often led to starvation. The new treatment while not a cure transformeddiabetes into a manageable chronic condition with greatly improved prospects for the lives of those who suffered from it.
Stem cell research and its associated treatments have progressed considerably in recent years. But what may not be as wellknown is the fact that it was two Canadian researchers at the University of Toronto James Till and Ernest McCulloch who first discovered bloodforming stem cells in the s.
Not only did this discovery lead almost immediately to the use of bone marrow transplants as an effective treatment for leukemia patients the researchers themselves also spawneda legacy of groundbreaking stem cell research and innovation here in Canada. Renowned University of Toronto medical biophysics professor Tak Mak who discovered the Tcell receptor in was a protege of Till and McCulloch. So was John Dick who would go on to discover cancer stem cells as well as to become the first researcher to successfully isolate a single human blood stem cell.
There were two successful polio vaccines that emergedin the s. While both were developed by American medical researchers one of them a vaccine devised by American medical researcher Dr. Jonas Salkwas massproduced by Torontos Connaught Medical Research Laboratories in order to meet the demands of an enormous clinical trial on . million children.
The success of the vaccines trial was made public in and the rest they say is history. Once awidespread debilitating illness polio affected roughly Canadians between and . After the Salk vaccine was licensed in and as the result of a largescaleinnoculation effort Canadas saw its last reported new case of of the diseasein .
In Dr. A. Albert Yuzpe a Canadian obstetriciangynecologist developed an effective way of avoiding unwanted pregnancies. The socalled Yuzperegimeninvolves the use of a specific combination of birth control pills and is considered to be an effective form of emergency contraception if utilized within the first hours after having unprotected sex.
The method is considered to be both effective and relatively safe. In several published studies the regimen was found to reduce rates of pregnancy among subjects by to per cent.
Its perhaps a less wellknown innovation but a recent one and no less important. In a team led by Dr. Shaf Keshavjee the director of the Toronto Lung Transplant Program at Toronto General Hospital deviseda way to test the viability of a donors lung before transplantation. The method called ex vivo lung perfusion hooks the lungs up to a domed device that maintains an environment that mimics human body temperature tests their function by pumping a bloodless solution of oxygen proteins and nutrients through them. The lungs are also treated with antiinflammatory drugs and antibiotics to allow the tissues to repair themselves.
According to Toronto respirologist Dr. Elizabeth Tullis the socalled XVIVO Lung Perfusion Systemallows lungs that had previously considered unsuitable for transplantation to be considered viable. They can take hours to see if theyregood she says. And if they are good then they can transplant them. So youve eliminated the risk and youve now increased your donor supply because those lungs used to beconsidered too risky.
Add articles you want to save to this folder by clicking the Add to Collection icon that appears with every article.
Your collection will not be saved on this site once your current session expires after an hour of inactivity. We will not save any of your browsing history.
The URL above is unique to your current collection. You can share it with others but it will not be shown anywhere on this site.
Click the Add to Collection folder next to articles you want to revisit later. Then come back to this folder to see your list of articles along with the URL to a permanent page weve created so you can view your articles at any time.
Be sure to come here and copy your URL before you leave the site as your collection will not be saved after you leave.
Robert Pearl MD executive director and CEO of The Permanente Medical Group and MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group discusses how integrated care coupled with stcentury technology transforms the way Kaiser Permanente members receive care and interact with their providers enabling superior health outcomes. 
Its no longer about just good doctors and good hospitals. Its really about connectivity its about data its about information its about speed to treatment Dr. Pearl said.
The documentary allows viewers to follow physicians through the care process as they demonstrate how health IT allows them to coordinate care to treat a patient over the course of one day starting with Doug Van Zoeren MD service chief Adult Medicine MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group District of Columbia and Suburban Maryland. 
Theres no doubt that IT and integration make me a better physician. Having that information available having the ability to communicate with my colleagues and with my patients in this way very much facilitate the care process Dr. Van Zoeren said. 
Viewers then see Kaiser Permanente MidAtlantic States member Kate Tiernys experience as she moves through the integrated and ITpowered health care organization from a telemedicine visit with Maurice Cates MD regional medical director Musculoskeletal Service Line MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group to an Xray with Bruce Wollman MD regional medical director Imaging Services MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group.
Tierny says Kaiser Permanentes personal health record My Health Manager on kp.org allows her to conveniently manage her health and connect with her caregivers. 
Coordinating care is so easy. The ability to manage my own health record online to book appointments to cancel appointments its just so convenient Tierny said.
More than . million members actively use My Health Manager on kp.org to engage their care teams and become more actively involved in their health care. In the last six months percent of registered members have signed on to My Health Manager five or more times. In Kaiser Permanente members used My Health Manager to view more than . million test results send nearly million emails to their doctors offices refill more than million prescriptions and schedule . million appointments.
Aneesh Chopra the United States chief technology officer and David Blumenthal MD former national coordinator for health IT point to Kaiser Permanente throughout the documentary as a model for coordinated highquality care enabled by health IT.
KP HealthConnect which is the largest private electronic health record in the world enables all of Kaiser Permanentes more than physicians to electronically access the medical records of all . million Kaiser Permanente members nationwide.
From electronic health records to home health monitoring tools to wifi in emergency medicine health IT is transforming the way important medical information is gathered stored and shared. According to many experts health IT stands poised to revolutionize the American health care system making it more efficient more effective and more focused on meeting the needs of patients.
Kaiser Permanente ShareNews views and moves from one of Americas leading health care providers and notforprofit health plans.
Discovery Life is a channel owned by Discovery Communications an American company that runs digital and satellite television network. The channel is focused on playing different life related shows. Discovery Life was formerly known as Discovery Fit Health and it was launched in after the merger of Discovery Health and FitTV. Due to both channels having success in the fitness and health department both channels took some of their favorite features and combined the two in one channel. In the year households in America had direct access to Discovery Life.
Discovery Health was a very popular channel before Communications decided to pull the plug on the channel and instead replace it with The Oprah Winfrey Network which came on air January st . Since Discovery Health seized to exist some of the popular shows that played on that channel regularly needed to move to a different channel spot. FitTV was the perfect match for all the healthy living shows which led to all the good shows from Discovery Health going to FitTV. 
The name of the Discovery communications channel Discovery Fit Health lasted until January th when the name was rebranded again into Discovery Life in FitTVs Channel space.
Caio Julio Vasconcelos who was born with microcephaly undergoes physical therapy at the Institute for the Blind in Joao Pessoa Brazil on Feb. . Researchers say the Zika virus may be linked to a wider variety of grave outcomes for developing babies than previously reported and that threats can come at any stage of pregnancy. Andre PennerAP
Doctors at a District of Columbia hospitalare concerned about how health workers monitorpregnant women whohave been infected with Zika saying that thesewomen can havea false sense of security for weeks before sometests show any sign ofbrain damage to a fetusthat might influence their decision to have an abortion.
The hospital Childrens National Medical Centertreated a yearold woman who had apparently normal ultrasounds until weeks into her pregnancy even though doctors found when testing her blood that the virus lingered for weeks after she was initially infected. The woman chose to have an abortion at weeks when doctors gave her a prognosisindicating thatthe fetus had developed severe brain damage.
Current recommendations by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention encourage doctors to conduct ultrasounds and to look for brain calcification but the findings from Childrens National indicate this may not be enough.
Our patient had several such ultrasound studies which remained free of either of those biomarkers Dr. Adre du Plessis director of the hospitals Fetal Medicine Institute and coauthor of an article about the case that appeared online Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine said in a call with reporters Wednesday. This led to a false reassurance to the mother and when we performed an MRI it was clear there was significant impairment in development of major structures in the brain and evidence of injury.
Researchers are looking to find out as early as they can into a pregnancy whether a fetus will develop abnormalities from Zika infection. In many states abortions are illegal if they are conducted after weeks. This delayed diagnosis of brain infection may put mothers for whom termination is an option outside of the legal limits of such a procedure du Plessis said.
Doctors are concerned about Zika which is spread primarily through mosquitoes because ithas been linked in Brazil to a surge of microcephaly cases a birth defect that causes babies to be born with unusually small heads and possible cognitive impairments. Several people have become infected with the virus and returned to the U.S. after traveling through Latin America and upon discovering abnormal brain scans pregnant women have had abortions. Scientists are increasingly learning more about the virus including that it can be transmitted sexually.
The CDC has advised pregnant women not to travel to Latin America. If they do the agency says to wear insect repellent and to require male partners who have traveled to these areas to wear condoms during sex as researchers dont know how long the virus lingers in semen.
Ultrasounds conducted at and weeks showed no signs of possible microcephaly or other issues with brain development but blood tests showed fragments of Zika in the womans blood. Doctors did not detect severe abnormalities in the fetus brain until the week ultrasound a timeframe that is significant for a fetal brain because it grows larger and more complex. Portions of the brain were thin and its growth was not keeping up with the pace of the skulls growth. Still doctors did not make an official diagnosis of microcephaly because the fetus head circumference was not small enough to meet the thresholdeven though the fetus brain weighed gramsafter the abortion less than a typical size which is grams.
An MRI conducted during the th week showed that the portion of the brain that controls decision making as well as the portion that detects vision hearing and touch were wasting away. The day the woman had the abortion weeks into the pregnancyshe still tested positive for Zika after the procedure but days later her blood urine and saliva tested negative. High concentrations of the virus were found in the aborted remains including in the brain umbilical cord and placenta and smaller concentrations were found in the muscle lung spleen and amniotic fluid. The virus found in the brain remained infectious when it was tested.
The high amount of virus in the fetal brain and the placenta are concerning and suggest that the virus may be able to hide from the immune system there Dr. Roberta DeBiasi chief of the hospitals division of infectious disease and coauthorof the New England Journal of Medicine studysaidin a statement. Equally concerning is Zikas apparent preference for fetal brain cells where it replicates efficiently and can do damage silently.
The researchers say it is still difficult to know how much the virus affects a fetus at different stages of pregnancy if at all. They cautioned against drawing any conclusions about a fetus development before further testing.
There may be a tendency to say We arent sure but it doesnt look right du Plessis said. That could lead to decisions that are not wellinformed.
Zika pregnancy abortion hospitals 
If you are looking for Discovery Health medical scheme please call .
If you are looking for a medical aid broker please call HLC Financial Services on .
The newsletters published on this website are to inform Discovery Health and Vitality members of benefits and rewards. The newsletters are written by HLC Financial Services FSP ORG and not by Discovery Health. Any Discovery Health member is welcome to subscribe to the email newsletter by emailing addy addy dscvrynws c z This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.
A new drug that is delivered through eye drops can shrink and dissolve cataracts. Cataracts is known to be the leading cause of blindness in humans so this is an amazing breakthrough since the only way to treat cataracts is through a highrisk and expensive surgery. So far the drug has been used on rabbits dogs and humans that suffer from the vision disorder. On all subjects it has shown success in shrinking the cataracts significantly. The drug contains lanosterol a natural steroid which scientist say stops defective proteins from clumping together and forming cataracts. This can be a large step for curing the disorder not only in the West but also in poorer nations that do not have access to the necessary facilities needed for a safe procedure.
A team of scientists have created artificial skin that they hope will revolutionize prosthetics allowing them to heal feel pain and more effectively detect touch and temperature. The artificial skin is made up of two plastic layers in which the top layer gathers all of the information and the bottom layer sends it over to the brain. Although this research is in its early stages this is a huge step for prosthetics and the team plans on taking a different approach in stimulating human nerves with electric pulses in the future.
Researchers from the Washington University in St. Louis have developed a new test capable of detecting nearly all viruses known to infect humans and animals. This new test also known as ViroCap can help doctors diagnose infection even if they have no idea what they are looking for. The test is still undergoing clinical trials so it may take a while before being used on actual patients. However the researchers plan to continue refining and testing the process and all results will be made public so that other researchers and doctors can assist with its improvement.
Scientists have made genetically engineered algae that can kill up to of cancer cells without harming any healthy cells. Researchers from the University of South Australia and Dresden in Germany created these algae by making diatoms packaged with chemotherapeutic drugs. They believe that algae treatment has huge potential to help fight off tumors and become a major part of cancer treatment in the near future.
hour I have always enjoyed learning about and teaching science. My personal favorite is.
hour Hello My name is Nathan G. and I am from the beautiful town of Bozeman Montana. I.
Outreach Engagement Launches Million Connect and Collaborate Grants Program
In the wake of the West African Ebola outbreak Assistant Professor Marcel Yotebieng details the need for a coordinated and robust global action plan to tackle this crisis.
Copyright Healthgrades Operating Company Inc. Patent US Nos. and . All Rights Reserved. 
Use of this website and any information contained herein is governed by the Healthgrades User Agreement.
We end your session when you are inactive for minutes. You have minute left. Do you want to stay logged in
Add articles you want to save to this folder by clicking the Add to Collection icon that appears with every article.
Your collection will not be saved on this site once your current session expires after an hour of inactivity. We will not save any of your browsing history.
The URL above is unique to your current collection. You can share it with others but it will not be shown anywhere on this site.
Click the Add to Collection folder next to articles you want to revisit later. Then come back to this folder to see your list of articles along with the URL to a permanent page weve created so you can view your articles at any time.
Be sure to come here and copy your URL before you leave the site as your collection will not be saved after you leave.
Robert Pearl MD executive director and CEO of The Permanente Medical Group and MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group discusses how integrated care coupled with stcentury technology transforms the way Kaiser Permanente members receive care and interact with their providers enabling superior health outcomes. 
Its no longer about just good doctors and good hospitals. Its really about connectivity its about data its about information its about speed to treatment Dr. Pearl said.
The documentary allows viewers to follow physicians through the care process as they demonstrate how health IT allows them to coordinate care to treat a patient over the course of one day starting with Doug Van Zoeren MD service chief Adult Medicine MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group District of Columbia and Suburban Maryland. 
Theres no doubt that IT and integration make me a better physician. Having that information available having the ability to communicate with my colleagues and with my patients in this way very much facilitate the care process Dr. Van Zoeren said. 
Viewers then see Kaiser Permanente MidAtlantic States member Kate Tiernys experience as she moves through the integrated and ITpowered health care organization from a telemedicine visit with Maurice Cates MD regional medical director Musculoskeletal Service Line MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group to an Xray with Bruce Wollman MD regional medical director Imaging Services MidAtlantic Permanente Medical Group.
Tierny says Kaiser Permanentes personal health record My Health Manager on kp.org allows her to conveniently manage her health and connect with her caregivers. 
Coordinating care is so easy. The ability to manage my own health record online to book appointments to cancel appointments its just so convenient Tierny said.
More than . million members actively use My Health Manager on kp.org to engage their care teams and become more actively involved in their health care. In the last six months percent of registered members have signed on to My Health Manager five or more times. In Kaiser Permanente members used My Health Manager to view more than . million test results send nearly million emails to their doctors offices refill more than million prescriptions and schedule . million appointments.
Aneesh Chopra the United States chief technology officer and David Blumenthal MD former national coordinator for health IT point to Kaiser Permanente throughout the documentary as a model for coordinated highquality care enabled by health IT.
KP HealthConnect which is the largest private electronic health record in the world enables all of Kaiser Permanentes more than physicians to electronically access the medical records of all . million Kaiser Permanente members nationwide.
From electronic health records to home health monitoring tools to wifi in emergency medicine health IT is transforming the way important medical information is gathered stored and shared. According to many experts health IT stands poised to revolutionize the American health care system making it more efficient more effective and more focused on meeting the needs of patients.
Kaiser Permanente ShareNews views and moves from one of Americas leading health care providers and notforprofit health plans.
The material in this site is intended to be of general informational use and is not intended to constitute medical advice probable diagnosis or recommended treatments. 
See the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights for more information. Ad Choices
The federal government collects records on hospital performance in many categories. Choose to see all the data on one hospital using the Select Hospital option below.
Or you can choose a category of measure and then a condition to get a table of all the hospitals scores on that one measure.
Discovery Communications. All Rights Reserved. Discovery Animal Planet Science Channel HD Theater ID Velocity Travel Channel TLC Destination America and their respective logos are trademarks of Discovery Communications.
DA Returns Three Notched Road Crozet VA . Delivery Agent Inc. is the seller of all Discovery Channel Store merchandise and is solely responsible for all aspects of your purchase.
Discovery Life Channel Begins January on the Current Discovery Fit Health Platform 
From the shocking to the scandalous the informative to the enlightening heartbreaking to heartwarming Discovery Life Channels programming has something relatable for the voyeur in all of us said Jane Latman general manager of Discovery Life Channel. Between our bold content unflappable talent and authentic storytelling we are excited to debut Discovery Life in January as a mustwatch television destination filled with humor and heart in the Discovery portfolio. 
WAYS TO KILL YOUR MOTHER Premieres Thursday January at c Experience the endearing and enduring relationship between a brave yearold Irish mom and her daredevil son Baz Ashmawy as they grab life by the horns on a unique journey to experience extreme adventures together. Theyre the kind of stunts that keep a parent up at night with worry but in WAYS TO KILL YOUR MOTHER mom is along for the ride. From skydiving to alligator wrestling this sixpart series follows Baz as he sets sail across the globe with a bucket list designed to test his mums mettle. 
BODY BIZARRE Premieres Saturday January at c BODY BIZARRE features stories of people living with the most mysterious and incredible medical anomalies focusing on their total transformation of mind body and soul while undergoing treatment. Each onehour episode uncovers cases from across the globe of real and really astonishing medical abnormalities that continue to stump the best doctors and experts. Cases include a young Nepalese man born with three legs to a bizarre spinal defect that left a Brazilian mans head facing upside down and a rare syndrome that causes a Swedish family to feel no pain. BODY BIZARRE provides unprecedented access into the lives of these individuals and explains the science behind each condition all the while celebrating the remarkable spirit of perseverance. 
Join PR Newswire for Journalists to access all of the free services designated to make your job easier.
In need of subject matter experts for your story Submit a free ProfNet request and find the sources you need. LEARN MORE
Scientists and clinicians at the University of Chicago Medical Center are always seeking new ways to enhance patient care through research. In this video researchers Neil Shubin Funmi Olopade and Kevin White describe how their scholarship on topics ranging from breast cancer to evolutionary biology advances knowledge while benefitting patients.
Once youve logged in look for the icon throughout your favorite Alltop topics. Click it to add that site to your personal MyAlltop page.
Check your inbox for your activation email. Once youve confirmed your email address youll be able to start adding feeds and sharing your custom url.
All content on this website including dictionary thesaurus literature geography and other reference data is for informational purposes only. This information should not be considered complete up to date and is not intended to be used in place of a visit consultation or advice of a legal medical or any other professional.
At UC San Francisco we are driven by the idea that when the best research the best teaching and the best patient care converge we can deliver breakthroughs that help heal the world.
At UC San Francisco we dont just treat diseases we treat individuals. We put our patients priorities at the center of our care and strive for breakthrough discoveries so that we can improve peoples lives.
UC San Francisco is leading revolutions in health and those revolutions often start in the lab. From basic science to clinical research we are constantly pushing scientific boundaries and earning worldwide recognition for our discoveries.
At UC San Francisco we encourage our students to approach health care issues with critical thinking and a spirit of inquiry. As tomorrows health and science leaders in training UCSF students embody our passion for improving the human condition and pushing health care forward.
UCSF News tells stories about the extraordinary work being done here every day and about the dedicated passionate people behind it. Explore news stories and press releases or access media resources.
As the leading university focused exclusively on health UC San Francisco is advancing health worldwide. Whether you contribute your time or your money you are helping to progress knowledge in medicine and drive scientific breakthroughs to create a healthier world.
UCSF is a healthsciences research powerhouse a premier academic medical center that values not only the physician who designs clinical trial protocols for promising experimental drugs but also the talented lab scientist who unearths natures secrets on the molecular and cellular levels.
Its a place where basic scientists population scientists and clinical researchers work together to translate basic biological discoveries into new solutions for preventing and treating human diseases.
The University also advances discovery through partnerships with business industry and other research organizations. In the most recent tally UCSF topped all other public universities in research funds awarded from the National Institutes of Health the federal agency that based on competitive review of research proposals awards the bulk of federal health sciences research dollars.
Everything from inheritance to how we eat to whom we live with now appears to affect aging. Carla Perissinotto MD MHS led an analysis of data on more than older Americans and concluded that loneliness is independently associated with an increased rate of deathand functional decline. Even those who live with partners may report that they often feel lonely she found.
Cognitive decline and dementia are among the most feared risks of aging but Adam Gazzaley MD PhD has concluded that shortterm memory loss may be due to distraction and that shortterm memory and multitasking can be improved through training in both the young and old.
Neil Risch PhD leads a project to analyze genes and bits of DNA called telomeres from Kaiser Permanente patients whose health data has been incorporated into one of the worlds largest genetic and environmental information resources for health research. He found that people with the shortest telomeres were percent more likely to die over a threeyear period. In other telomere news Elissa Epel PhD led a study in which researchers found that having cells with shorter telomeres is associated with having a wandering mind.
On the molecular level Gladstone Institutes researcher Eric Verdin MD found that in mouse tissues and human cells in the lab a naturally occurring molecule called OHB the bodys major source of energy during exercise or fasting blocks a class of enzymes that would otherwise promote oxidative stress thereby protecting cells from aging. This might explain the lifeprolonging effects of lowcalorie ketogenic diets observed in some animal studies according to Verdin.
UCSF is a world leader in efforts to understand and combat alcohol and tobacco addiction with groundbreaking work being done at the Ernest Gallo Clinic and Research Center in the neurobiology of alcohol addiction.
The Gallo Center was chosen to manage a new million Armyfunded program to develop new treatments to combat abuse of alcohol and other substances. This year Gallo researchers Jennifer Mitchell PhD and Howard L. Fields MD PhD reported that drinking alcohol leads to the release of endorphins in areas of the human brain that produce feelings of pleasure and reward. They also found that the smoking cessation drug varenicline significantly reduced alcohol consumption in a group of heavydrinking smokers. Impulsivity is a risk factor for addiction and another Gallo investigator Andrew Kayser PhD found that boosting levels of dopamine in the brains frontal cortex can lessen impulsivity in healthy adults.
Secondhand smoke causes deaths annually to nonsmokers in the United States according to a study led by Wendy Max PhD yet we remain bombarded by images of smoking in the movies. Top box office films last year showed more onscreen smoking than the prior year according to tobacco researcher Stanton A. Glantz PhD reversing five years of steady progress in reducing tobacco imagery in movies. Studies indicate that youth subjected to more images of smoking in movies are more likely to become smokers. Citing Glantzs study officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has committed to begin tracking and reporting annually on images of smoking in youthoriented movies.
In this chart topgrossing films of are ranked by the number of incidents depicting tobacco use. An analysis led by Stanton A. Glantz PhD found that last years films showed more onscreen smoking than the prior year reversing five years of steady progress in reducing tobacco imagery in movies.
On the plus side for smokers who want to quit Neal Benowitz MD published a study in which he found that smokers who switched to cigarettes with tobacco that contains less nicotine did not compensate by smoking more cigarettes and inhaling more tar and toxins. It might therefore be possible to free smokers from addiction by gradually lowering the amount of nicotine in cigarettes Benowitz says.
UCSF is a leader in studies of the immune system and of how it abnormally attacks the body in autoimmune disease. In rodent studies neurologist and Gladstone investigator Katerina Akassoglou PhD found evidence that a protein which leaks from blood into the brain acts as an early trigger that sets off the brains inflammatory response in multiple sclerosis. UCSF neurologist Hans Christian von Bdingen MD found that B cells of the immune system also suspected of playing a role in MS move in and out of the brain. Both discoveries suggest possible treatment strategies.
In another autoimmune disease called Sjogrens syndrome which affects up to million people in the United States percent of them women School of Dentistry professor Caroline Shiboski DDS PhD led an international team that established improved diagnostic criteria.
The living cell still yields basic insights when probed by researchers armed with all the tricks of molecular biology and biochemistry.
When the cells factories that fold and put the finishing touches on proteins cannot keep up with all the proteins they need to fold the cell kicks into the unfolded protein response by throwing some switches to ramp up its folding capacity if it still cant keep up it throws in the towel and activates a suicide program.
UCSF researcher Feroz Papa MD PhD has learned to successfully manipulate the unfolded protein response in ways that might one day used to fight diabetes. Davide Ruggero PhD coled a team that discovered cells of the blood cancers known as lymphomas often contain mutations that allow them to evade the cellsuicide program as they activate the unfolded protein response to meet their outsized protein demands.
Sometimes refining existing treatments can make as big a difference in preserving and restoring health as entirely new treatments.
Rebecca SmithBindman MD a professor of radiology and biomedical imaging explains her research showing that radiation exposure through medical imaging exams is increasing with some exams being unnecessary or exposing patients to higherthannecessary radiation doses.
UCSF radiologist Rebecca SmithBindman MD aims to educate physicians about radiation risks. Her research showed that radiation exposure through medical imaging exams is increasing with some exams being unnecessary or exposing patients to higherthannecessary radiation doses.
On the flip side neurosurgeon Edward Chang MD determined that a surgical epilepsy treatment found to be effective a decade ago remains underused. And J. Claude Hemphill III MD MAS chief of neurology at the UCSFaffiliated San Francisco General Hospital and Trauma Center led clinical trials that showed paramedics using an autoinjector to inject an anticonvulsive treatment directly into the thigh were able to stop epileptic seizures more quickly and effectively than they could by giving an anticonvulsant through an IV line.
The UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center received a major renewal grant from the NIH this year and its researchers continue to make seminal discoveries across a wide spectrum of cancers.
Armed with a new million grant to study advanced prostate cancer UCSF will lead multicenter research that will focus on patients to identify the causes of drug resistance in the disease and to better tailor treatment to the individual.
To treat brain cancer neurosurgeon Andrew Parsa MD PhD found that a cancer vaccine shows promise in Phase II trials. Oncologists and surgeons have demonstrated ways to predict postoperative earlystage lung cancer mortality and determined that a molecular test can predict the likelihood of death from earlystage lung cancer more accurately than conventional methods.
A tean led by Eleni Linos MD DrPH found that indoor tanning beds can cause nonmelanoma skin cancer and that the risk is greater the earlier one starts tanning.
Robert Lustig MD Laura Schmidt PhD MSW MPH and Claire Brindis DPH issued a report in February calling for sugar to be controlled like alcohol and tobacco to protect public health. This chart compares health complications from excessive sugar intake with excessive alcohol use.
Pharmaceutical giant Sanofi is collaborating with the UCSF Diabetes Center on a . million project to develop new drugs for type and type diabetes. Meanwhile UCSF and San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center researcher Kristine Yaffe MD found a strong association between type diabetes and risk for Alzheimers disease.
Pediatric endocrinologistRobert Lustig MD public health policy sociologistLaura Schmidt PhD MSW MPH and pediatrics and health policy specialistClaire Brindis DrPH MPH proposed that sugar plays a central role in a global health crisis and should be regulated as alcohol is regulated.
Kirsten BibbinsDomingo MD PhD and her colleagues reported that a pennyperounce U.S. tax on sweetened beverages would prevent cases of diabetes and deaths each year.
Viruses and parasites that get little attention from most Americans continue to plague the world but UCSF scientists aim to turn the tide against these persistent pathogens.
In April UCSF hosted the Bay Area World Malaria Day Symposium which drew malaria experts who aim to eradicate the disease. They included UCSFs Bryan Greenhouse MD who described strategies for tracking genetic changes in the malaria parasite in human populations to make better public health decisions about how to focus malaria control efforts and UCSF Global Health group researchers Gavin Yamey MD MPH and Chris Cotter MPH who described research showing that lapses in control efforts have historically played a larger role than other factors in driving malaria resurgences.
In this video James McKerrow MD PhD a professor of pathology in the UCSF Sandler Center for Drug Discovery discusses his research that identified an arthritis drug that potentially could offer a lowdose low cost treatment for parasites that cause dysentery.
Hookworm infection is second only to malaria as a cause of disability worldwide. Conor Caffrey PhD directed a study in hamsters in which he used an experimental drug to target a key protease enzyme in the parasites gut that helps it digest a blood meal. The results showed that the drug cures hookworm in hamsters and suggested that similar drugs might be effective in humans. In another parasite study James McKerrow MD PhD and his UCSF and UCSD collaborators found that an inexpensive arthritis drug kills parasites that cause dysentery. McKerrow and colleagues have planned clinical trials to use the drug to target these dysenterycausing amoebas as well as the parasite that causes giardia.
In HIV research UCSFaffiliated Gladstone investigator Robert Grant MD MPH earlier led a major study in Africa that partly served as the basis for the FDAs decision in to approve Truvada a combination of two antiretroviral therapies as the first drug treatment for the prevention of HIV infection in highrisk populations. This year Grant coled a study in which he found that HIV prevention can be largely effective even when patients sometimes miss Truvada doses.
UCSF epidemiologist Kimberly Page is developing guidelines for other cities to adopt the San Francisco model of outreach education counseling and care developed at the Tenderloin Clinical Research Center. The model is tailored to young injection drug users who are at highest risk for hepatitis C.Photo by Susan Merrell
In the U.S. hepatitis C now kills more people than HIV. Kimberly Page PhD MPS and colleagues from Johns Hopkins University are leading the first multicenter doubleblinded randomized placebocontrolled trial of a vaccine to prevent hepatitis C infection which chronically afflicts about half of injection drug users as well as many baby boomers who dont suspect that they have the disease.
UCSF researchers from the schools of pharmacy and medicine are working with the Food and Drug Administration FDA to develop and pilot more effective methods for evaluating new drugs and devices.
The agency issued a draft guidance on clinical trials aimed toward faster evaluation of promising breast cancer drugs based on a trial design being tested in a clinical study known as ISPY . Led by oncologist Laura Esserman MD MBA researchers launched the study in conjunction with a privatepublic partnership that includes the FDA the NIH pharmaceutical companies and academic medical centers.
In the realm of medical devices the FDA selected a project to develop an artificial kidney headed by Shuvo Roy PhD as a pilot for a new regulatoryapproval program called Innovation Pathway .. The program is intended to bring breakthrough medical device technologies to patients faster and more efficiently.
Kathleen Giacomini PhD also worked with the FDA leading the development of the UCSFFDA TransPortal. This online tool offers guidance about how to select and conduct preclinical studies to identify potential interactions of experimental drugs both with proteins involved in drug metabolism as well as with other drugs that can affect drug metabolism.
Aoife ODonovan PhD explains in this video her study that found women with PTSD might be more likely to experience faster aging at the cellular level and increased risk for diseases of aging than men with the condition.
Many UCSF researchers at the San Francisco VA Medical Center strive to identify risks and treatments for posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD.
In researchers reported studies that may help explain why women appear to be at higher risk for PTSD following trauma and why they may face greater health risks from PTSD. One study reported by Sabra Inslicht PhD suggested that women with PTSD have greater fear responses than men. Another study reported by Aoife ODonovan PhD concluded that women with PTSD are more likely to experience aging at the cellular level.
UCSF Chancellor Susan DesmondHellmann MD MPH earlier cochaired a National Academy of Sciences Committee that recommended the creation of an extensive data network to revolutionize medical discovery diagnosis and treatment. This year she called on patient advocates to push for regulations to make clinical and research data more usable while protecting patient privacy. UCSF leaders are exploring bioinformatics projects that might serve as pilots for using data more powerfully for scientific discovery and to more precisely diagnose and treat each patients ills.
Neuroscience is one such area where massive databases including imaging data and tools for their analysis might be created to foster new discoveries. For example neurologist William Seeley MD a MacArthur Fellow already has used data from magnetic resonance imaging exams to evaluate predictions about how neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimers spread through nerve networks in the brain.
UCSFs leadership in stem cell research took center stage in as Gladstone investigator Shinya Yamanaka MD PhD received the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for his discoveries with induced pluripotent stem cells but many other UCSF faculty made important advances this year.
David Rowitch MD PhD professor and chief of neonatology in the NeuroIntensive Care Nursery. Photo by Susan Merrell
In the second neural stem cell clinical trial ever conducted in the United States and the first with published results David H. Rowitch MD PhD a professor of pediatrics and neurological surgery treated young children with PelizaeusMerzbacher disease PMD In PMD myelin a fatty sheath needed to insulate nerves is not produced.Rowitch and colleagues showed that the transplanted neural cells were successfully engrafted in the brain and produced myelin.
In lab studies Gladstone scientists led by Yadong Huang MD PhD reprogrammed skin cells to form an interconnected functional network of brain cells using a single genetic factor. In a mouse heartattack model Gladstone researchers Li Qian PhD and Deepak Srivastava MD used three factors injected into damaged hearts to convert scarforming cells into beating heart muscle cells that improved blood pumping.
Ophir Klein MD PhD who works to identify molecules and molecular interactions that govern how stem cells shape teeth and the bones of the face shows a mutation in this image that affects stemcell action in the development of mouse incisors that grow continuously bottom image. Photo by Ophir Klein Development.
Researchers also are investigating the therapeutic potential of transplanting naturally occurring cells. To explore treating neuropathic pain with cell therapy Allan Basbaum PhD led a team that transplanted immature embryonic nerve cells from the brains of mice into the spinal cord to relieve pain.
Similarly in studies led by Arturo AlvarezBuylla PhD the survival of embryonic neurons transplanted into the brains of newborn mice has raised hopes for one day using such cells to treat neurodegenerative diseases.
Ophir Klein MD PhD who spans the schools of dentistry and medicine and treats craniofacial abnormalities continues to identify molecules and molecular interactions that govern how stem cells shape teeth and the bones of the face.
Thaindian News All Copyrights reserved Thaindian.com Company Limited
Skin color prejudice exists around the world but dont just take it from a pale white lady.
In this Birth Day clip a condition of preeclampsia causes the doctor and patient to change their original plan on a completely natural childbirth.
In Vienna childbed fever caused death among many pregnant patients. Consequently Dr. Ignaz Semmelweis began an experiment where his doctors washed their hands. Learn more about this experiment on the Science Channels Greatest Discoveries.
After being pulled out of his home by a tornado a man lands in a nearby field with no significant injuries. The strength of his bones protected him. Bones resiliency is discussed in this Discovery Channel video.
After the recovery of Kasey Edwards arm from the belly of an aggressive alligator doctors work to reattach it on this clip from Disocvery Channels I Was Bitten.
During the summer air conditioners are a part of most everyones life. Find out how they work in this HowStuffWorks video.
Dr. Lydie Hazan offers tips to get you started on the National Body Challenge. Learn more about fitness in this video from Discovery.
The cars of the future are expected to be equipped with safety sensors that make driving even safer. Learn more about this technology on Discovery Channels Future Car.
A man who called himself Count von Cosel kept a terrible secret for years and now its part of a museum. Plus some frankly pedestrian advice on how to achieve good sleep.
Engineers are testing an experimental train that floats on a magnetic field called Maglev for magnetic levitation. Learn more about this speedy vehicle on Discovery Channels series Extreme Engineering.
Microsoft has teamed up with researchers in the Netherlands to generate a new Dprinted Rembrandt painting. Plus an important update to the AP style guide.
It turns out bats are way more clever than we might have given them credit for. Plus theres a lot of weird stuff on the U.S. one dollar bill.
Colorism is a form of skin prejudice that exists all around the world. Learn more about colorism in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Josh and Chuck discuss the implications of humans reproducing on a colonized Mars then talk about an absurd Texas bill that would have required criminals to notify their victims in advance or face additional charges.
Public wifi can be an enormously convenient thing it helps people dodge data charges in coffee shops airports and other places around the globe. But how safe is it Tune in to learn more.
Recently Aaron Chervenak married his smartphone at the Little Las Vegas Chapel. It may have just been a symbolic gesture for him but objectum sexuality people who fall in love with objects is a real thing.
Bayard Rustin was an important figure in the American Civil Rights Movement. Learn more about Bayard Rustin in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Scientists from India and the UK are collaborating on the largest study of Indias monsoon season and the results could improve the lives of over one billion people.
From Microsofts epic Tay chatbot debacle to Googles romancenovelraised A.I. we look at some of the recent successes and failures in getting machines to talk.
Jealousy in relationships can be healthy and natural or possessive and even abusive. Learn more about jealousy in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Theres always a little shampoo left in the bottle and now scientists have a way to make sure you get to soap up with each and every last drop.
A year old dress was found on a sunken ship and its in remarkably good condition. In Delaware the demolition of the former home of a notorious pedophile is blocked by the historic preservation commission.
You are leaving AARP.org and going to the website of our trusted provider. The providers terms conditions and policies apply. Please return to AARP.org to learn more about other benefits.
Manage your email preferences and tell us which topics interest you so that we can prioritize the information you receive.
Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try again.
What Social Security Questions Should We Ask the Presidential Candidates Vote Now andTake a Stand 
Online shopping playing cards and spending time with friends are all linked to better brain health as we age
Members can apply for term coverage from AARP Life Insurance Program from New York Life.
Members can locate discounts on the go via the AARP Member Advantages Offer Finder app.
Actress Valerie Harper stands up to cancer by living life to the fullest learn her invaluable secrets to joy
Up to percent of people age plus have some hearing loss and much of the time it is left untreated
Big increases in some Medicare premiums are expected according to the annual trustees reports
Figure out which longterm care insurance option best meets your health care needs
The full story of the Zika virus is still unfolding. For now heres what you need to know
When her mothers only kidney started to fail Marthita Cosgalla donated one of hers
How much do you know about the symptoms of a heart attack and what should you do to survive
Feeling tired These commonly prescribed drugs could be the cause of your fatique
A growing number of people are abusing prescription painkillers sometimes with fatal consequences
Visit the AARP state page forinformation about events news and resources near you.
AARP is a nonprofit nonpartisan organization that helps people and older improve the quality of their lives.
Scientists at the University of California San Diego have developed a new genetic platform that allows efficient production of naturally occurring molecules and have used it to produce a novel antibiotic compound. Their study published this week in PNAS may open new avenues for natural product discoveries and drug development. 
According to lead investigator Bradley S. Moore PhD of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences at UC San Diego the findings demonstrate a plug and play technique to trigger previously unknown biosynthetic pathways and identify natural product drug candidates. 
In my opinion the new synthetic biology technology we developed which resulted in the discovery of a new antibiotic from a marine bacterium is just the tip of the iceberg in terms of our ability to modernize the natural product drug discovery platform Moore said. 
But it often proves difficult to grow the newly discovered ocean bacteria in the laboratory or to get them to produce their full repertoire of natural products.
The UC San Diego scientists harvested a set of genes predicted to encode a natural product from ocean bacteria then used the synthetic biology technology to identify and test a totally new antibiotic taromycin A found to be effective in fighting drugresistant MRSA. 
Antibiotic resistance is critical challenge to the public health. Most antibiotics such as penicillin used in human medicine are natural molecules originally isolated from microbes in the soil or rainforest part of the chemical warfare that microbes deploy to outcompete one another and secure their niche in the environment said coinvestigator Victor Nizet MD professor of pediatrics and pharmacy at UC San Diego. 
Such microbes have the genetic capacity to biosynthesize a wide range of specialized compounds. Although nextgeneration sequencing technologies can potentially exploit this capacity as an approach to natural drug discovery researchers currently lack procedures to efficiently link genes with specific molecules. To help bridge this gap the UC San Diego researchers developed a genetic platform based on transformationassociated recombination TAR cloning which efficiently produces natural product molecules from uncharacterized gene collections.
The researchers applied the platform to yeast targeting the taromycin gene cluster because of its high degree of similarity to the biosynthesis pathway of daptomycin a clinically approved antibiotic used to treat infections caused by multiresistant bacteria. The technique has the potential to unlock the drug discovery potential of countless new and mysterious microbes Nizet concluded. 
Additional contributors to the study include Kazuya Yamanaka Kirk A. Reynolds Roland D. Kersten Katherine S. Ryan David J. Gonzalez and Pieter C. Dorrestein. 
Joe Harding and Jay Wright both were young WSU faculty when they met under unusual circumstances.
More than years later that accidental meeting has blossomed through friendship and research collaboration into hundreds of journal articles eight patented commercial applications and creation of Pacific Northwest Biotechnology a privately held corporation fueled by outside investors.
This all began in when Harding moved his family to Pullman. An unscrupulous real estate agent rented Harding a house which also had been leased to Wright and his family.
VA Research Week is designed to call attention to the achievements of VA researchers and the role they play in providing high quality care for veterans and advancing medical science.
It is an opportunity to educate Veterans our elected representatives and the public about the research at VA medical centers and its impact on treating and preventing disease and disability.
This years theme is Caring for Veterans through Discovery Collaboration.
VA researchers are working to finding better ways to accurately diagnoseTBI and PTSD.
Since more than . million U.S. troops have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. The signature injuries of these wars posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD and traumatic brain injury TBI affect large numbers of returning Veterans and cant easily be diagnosed with a blood test brain scan or other lab test.
Even as VA clinicians apply the latest methods to help Veterans affected by TBI and PTSD VA researchers are working to find better ways to accurately diagnose the two conditions especially in cases where they may overlap in confusing ways.
For example in a small pilot study a team with VA and the University of California San Diego found that a combination of two imaging technologies magnetoencephalography MEG and diffusion tensor imaging DTI can show subtle brain injuries that go undetected in conventional CT and MRI scans.
MEG picks up the signals that neurons give off when they fire. DTI picks up abnormalities in the brains nerve fibers. More research using these technologies is now underway.
Families of Veterans who have sustained multiple polytrauma injuries are the focus of research by a team based at the Minneapolis VA Medical Center home to one of VAs four main polytrauma centers.
One study underway is called Family and Caregiver Experiences with Polytrauma or FACES.
Lead investigator Joan Griffin PhD says the study should provide muchneeded information about the current and longterm needs of familiespeople who in many cases will continue to be involved in their loved ones care for years or even decades to come.
Other studies by the Minneapolis group aim to make VA polytrauma care more familycentered. That means involving families in the care plan giving them the right resources and seeing to their needs.
If we keep families informed and involved in a way that they want to be involved and in which the patient wants them to be involved adherence to treatment and outcomes are likely to be better says Nina Sayer PhD research chairperson for the polytraumabrain injury Quality Research Enhancement Initiative.
From Smart Electrodes to Electric Bandages APT Center Researchers are Forging a New Generation of Adaptive Devices
What goes on at the Advanced Platform Technology APT Center might sound more like something out of a science fiction novel by Isaac Asimov or Robert A. Heinlein. At this Research Center of Excellence based at the Louis Stokes VA Medical Center in Cleveland scientists and engineers are developing a material that can mimic brain tissue.
Others are refining a musclepowered brace that could allow paraplegics to walk and climb stairs. Still others are creating disposable electric bandages to promote faster healing of wounds and artificial limbs that sync up with the nervous system. We try to capitalize on advances in materials science and microelectronics says APT Center Executive Director Ronald Triolo PhD.
A case in point is a new type of electrode for use in braincomputer systems. Existing brain electrodes are made of stiff silicon so they dont fit well in the watery environment of the brain. An APT Center team has created a material that softens once inside the brain rendering it mechanically invisible.
To learn more about VA research and events marking this years National VA Research Week April and VA Central Office events April visit www.research.va.gov.
Discovery Health members can order their repeatable medicine over the phone and Discovery MedXpress will deliver it directly to an address of their choice.
The Discovery MedXpress service is convenient saves members time and helps to ensure lower or no copayments.
There is no additional administration or delivery costmembers enjoy this service just by being a Discovery Health member.
After sending in the prescription members will receive an SMS from Discovery Health within hours. They can call Discovery MedXpress on to place their order
Please note that initially the service will only be applicable to repeatable medicine. Repeatable medicine is any medicine that is taken regularly and for which you have a prescription that contains repeats for more than one month.
Once youve logged in look for the icon throughout your favorite Alltop topics. Click it to add that site to your personal MyAlltop page.
Check your inbox for your activation email. Once youve confirmed your email address youll be able to start adding feeds and sharing your custom url.
Skin color prejudice exists around the world but dont just take it from a pale white lady.
In this Birth Day clip a condition of preeclampsia causes the doctor and patient to change their original plan on a completely natural childbirth.
In Vienna childbed fever caused death among many pregnant patients. Consequently Dr. Ignaz Semmelweis began an experiment where his doctors washed their hands. Learn more about this experiment on the Science Channels Greatest Discoveries.
After being pulled out of his home by a tornado a man lands in a nearby field with no significant injuries. The strength of his bones protected him. Bones resiliency is discussed in this Discovery Channel video.
After the recovery of Kasey Edwards arm from the belly of an aggressive alligator doctors work to reattach it on this clip from Disocvery Channels I Was Bitten.
During the summer air conditioners are a part of most everyones life. Find out how they work in this HowStuffWorks video.
Dr. Lydie Hazan offers tips to get you started on the National Body Challenge. Learn more about fitness in this video from Discovery.
The cars of the future are expected to be equipped with safety sensors that make driving even safer. Learn more about this technology on Discovery Channels Future Car.
A man who called himself Count von Cosel kept a terrible secret for years and now its part of a museum. Plus some frankly pedestrian advice on how to achieve good sleep.
Engineers are testing an experimental train that floats on a magnetic field called Maglev for magnetic levitation. Learn more about this speedy vehicle on Discovery Channels series Extreme Engineering.
Microsoft has teamed up with researchers in the Netherlands to generate a new Dprinted Rembrandt painting. Plus an important update to the AP style guide.
It turns out bats are way more clever than we might have given them credit for. Plus theres a lot of weird stuff on the U.S. one dollar bill.
Colorism is a form of skin prejudice that exists all around the world. Learn more about colorism in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Josh and Chuck discuss the implications of humans reproducing on a colonized Mars then talk about an absurd Texas bill that would have required criminals to notify their victims in advance or face additional charges.
Public wifi can be an enormously convenient thing it helps people dodge data charges in coffee shops airports and other places around the globe. But how safe is it Tune in to learn more.
Recently Aaron Chervenak married his smartphone at the Little Las Vegas Chapel. It may have just been a symbolic gesture for him but objectum sexuality people who fall in love with objects is a real thing.
Bayard Rustin was an important figure in the American Civil Rights Movement. Learn more about Bayard Rustin in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Scientists from India and the UK are collaborating on the largest study of Indias monsoon season and the results could improve the lives of over one billion people.
From Microsofts epic Tay chatbot debacle to Googles romancenovelraised A.I. we look at some of the recent successes and failures in getting machines to talk.
Jealousy in relationships can be healthy and natural or possessive and even abusive. Learn more about jealousy in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Theres always a little shampoo left in the bottle and now scientists have a way to make sure you get to soap up with each and every last drop.
A year old dress was found on a sunken ship and its in remarkably good condition. In Delaware the demolition of the former home of a notorious pedophile is blocked by the historic preservation commission.
If youre trying to find some quick motivation for your diet or exercise regime or maybe you just enjoy some light healthy article reading Youve come to the right place
This is a collection of motivational articles and information from professionals in many different fields of health and fitness.
Other authors include just regular people who have struggled overcome and came here to offer their tips of advice and secrets of success.
Have you ever heard the expression use it or lose it Its true If you dont use your body you will surely lose it.
Most people start off strong with an exercise program and then within a few weeks theyve got an excuse for not being there.
A complete fitness program must include aerobic exercise muscular strength and endurance conditioning and flexibility exercise.
Tired of paved roads Want to go where there arent any speed limits If you answered yes then your vehicle of choice could very well be a mountain bike.
The word has been tossed around quite a bit lately. Pilates pronounced Pilahteez used primarily by dancers for deep body conditioning and injury rehabilitation.
Exercise as an antidote to depression and anxiety is not a new concept. In the th century Scotland doctors in mental hospitals prescribed heavy farm chores as the best medicine for their patients and documented marked improvements in mood and behavior.
Having questions about TaeBo and not sure where to start Weve got answers to help you learn the basics.
Discovery Life Channel Begins January on the Current Discovery Fit Health Platform 
From the shocking to the scandalous the informative to the enlightening heartbreaking to heartwarming Discovery Life Channels programming has something relatable for the voyeur in all of us said Jane Latman general manager of Discovery Life Channel. Between our bold content unflappable talent and authentic storytelling we are excited to debut Discovery Life in January as a mustwatch television destination filled with humor and heart in the Discovery portfolio. 
WAYS TO KILL YOUR MOTHER Premieres Thursday January at c Experience the endearing and enduring relationship between a brave yearold Irish mom and her daredevil son Baz Ashmawy as they grab life by the horns on a unique journey to experience extreme adventures together. Theyre the kind of stunts that keep a parent up at night with worry but in WAYS TO KILL YOUR MOTHER mom is along for the ride. From skydiving to alligator wrestling this sixpart series follows Baz as he sets sail across the globe with a bucket list designed to test his mums mettle. 
BODY BIZARRE Premieres Saturday January at c BODY BIZARRE features stories of people living with the most mysterious and incredible medical anomalies focusing on their total transformation of mind body and soul while undergoing treatment. Each onehour episode uncovers cases from across the globe of real and really astonishing medical abnormalities that continue to stump the best doctors and experts. Cases include a young Nepalese man born with three legs to a bizarre spinal defect that left a Brazilian mans head facing upside down and a rare syndrome that causes a Swedish family to feel no pain. BODY BIZARRE provides unprecedented access into the lives of these individuals and explains the science behind each condition all the while celebrating the remarkable spirit of perseverance. 
Join PR Newswire for Journalists to access all of the free services designated to make your job easier.
In need of subject matter experts for your story Submit a free ProfNet request and find the sources you need. LEARN MORE
The inspirational video below will tell youthestory of a girl who could have given up but.
What you eat is extremely important for building your immune system. All our dietary flaws like.
Dr. Mark Hyman is one of the leaders in teaching people how to apply natural therapy.
In todays modern age it can be easy to forget some of the more common medicinal.
Not all foods are equally beneficial for our health. Some of them of them are destructive.
The inspirational video below will tell youthestory of a girl who could have given up but didnt indulge weakness and continued to fight. The girl was diagnosed with bone.
What you eat is extremely important for building your immune system. All our dietary flaws like a lack of fruits and vegetables are going to come back to us.
Dr. Mark Hyman is one of the leaders in teaching people how to apply natural therapy to detox our bodies and improve health. His personal experience ofproblems with his.
In todays modern age it can be easy to forget some of the more common medicinal methods of the Native Americans. In fact the knowledge of the ancient cultures.
Not all foods are equally beneficial for our health. Some of them of them are destructive some are favorable and others are soso. But there are also foods that.
Salt has many uses from seasoning your food to maintaining your house. We all know that salt can be great for adding flavor but it can also impact your.
We are surrounded by artificial light sources in our daily life whether it is the light in our office or from our phone screen. Artificial light can impact your.
Do you like getting comfortable in front of the TV after a day of work or on the weekends Maybe even with some notsohealthy snacks at hand And would.
Theres a lot to be gained by being a yes person. You cannot make changes in your life without saying yes to opportunities that present themselves. Never before in.
Healthe News print and television reporters are among finalists announced today for the prestigious annual Discovery Health Journalism Award.
Kyla Hermannsen films Nolibele Debe who must walk for hours and cross a river to receive monthly physiotherapy for her arthritis in the Eastern Cape. Hermannsens documentary Dying In Our Homes aired on SABC
The annual awards which started in are aimed at raising both the standard and quantity of health reporting in South Africa by promoting and recognising excellent work of journalists committed to the health field.
According to Discovery the work of this years finalists demonstrated a commitment to making quality balanced healthcare information accessible to South Africans and holding the healthcare industry accountable.
The high calibre of the entries we receive each year demonstrates the growing quality of health reporting and the critical role health journalists play in helping the public understand complex healthcare issues to make informed decisions about their health said CEO of Discovery Health Dr Jonathan Broomberg in a statement. I commend each finalist as their work not only strengthens the South African healthcare system and its accessibility but ultimately helps in saving and improving lives.
Winners in each category will be announced at the Discovery Health Journalism Awards event on the May .
Healthe News OurHealth citizen journalism includes more than citizen journalists reporting from districts nationwide including National Health Insurance pilot sites. Reporting largely from rural areas OurHealth journalists also monitor essential medicines at local clinics.
Scientists have pinpointed a gene mutation as a major cause of a rare side effect of the cholesterollowering drugs statins.
They hope the discovery could lead to a simple test to identify patients at increased risk of myopathy severe muscle pain and weakness.
This would also enable higher doses of statins to be safely prescribed to patients not at risk of the condition.
Statins are now widely prescribed in the UK and are credited with saving almost lives a year in England alone.
The researchers funded by the British Heart Foundation BHF found a variation in the DNA code of a gene called SLCB was responsible for of the myopathy cases in people taking high dose statin therapy. 
SLCB regulates the uptake of statins into the liver and the genetic variant seems to affect its function causing higher levels of the statin to be present in the blood. 
Only about one in patients taking a standard dose of statins develops myopathy and the risk remains very low even if they carry the rogue gene.
However the risk of myopathy for patients taking higher doses of statins because they are at greater risk of heart attack or stroke jumps to around one in . If they are taking other medications which can react with statins the risk can be as high as one in .
The researchers found that patients on the higher dose who carry one copy of the rogue gene were more than four times more likely to develop myopathy than those without a copy.
And for patients who carried two copies of the rogue gene one from each parent the risk was increased times.
Around one in four people carries either one or two copies of the key genetic variant.
Myopathy is usually completely reversible by a change of prescription. However very occasionally the muscle begins to break down which can cause kidney failure and sometimes death.
A DNA test based on these findings could guide doctors as to whether a patient at high risk of heart disease will cope with a high dose of a statin which might be more effective than a standard dose at preventing a heart attack or stroke.
If the patient doesnt have the gene variation they are likely to be at low risk of myopathy even on high statin dose. 
Professor Peter Weissberg BHF medical director said the study was a good example of the emerging field of pharmacogenomics the use of genetic information to guide safer drug prescribing.
He said statininduced myopathy was very rare and reversible if the symptoms are recognised and the drug is stopped so it would not be necessary to screen all people prescribed usual doses.
Copyright BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more.
This page is best viewed in an uptodate web browser with style sheets CSS enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets CSS if you are able to do so.
The owner of this website www.immortal.org has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebbccdfua.
How will the next wave of fundamental scientific advancement be unleashed Will America lead this new scientific revolution or be a sideline spectator And how might commonly held theories of today be viewed in the near and distance future Continue reading 
You can read Meyers article Goodbye EUImposed Regulation at the National Review website.
Within hours of the nightclub massacre in Orlando committed by Islamist terrorist Omar Mateen reports came out that the perpetrator had been a person of interest known by the FBI.
In Mateen was interviewed twice by the FBI after he had made inflammatory comments to workplace colleagues asserting his ties to ISIS.
In he was questioned again about a reported connection to Moner Mohammad AbuSalha who attended Mateens radical mosque in Fort Pierce Fla. and who had carried out a suicide bombing in the Syria conflict. The FBI says the bureau dropped Mateen from being a person of interest or being on a terrorist watch list because of insufficient and inconclusive evidence.
Daniel Gilroy a former Fort Pierce police officer who was Mateens coworker at security firm GS says he complained multiple times to his superiors about Mateen being unhinged and talking about killing people.
Gilroy believes the lack of response and disciplinary action toward Mateen by GS managers at that time was because it was politically incorrect to criticize or write up a Muslim.
Part of the tragedy of the Islamist terrorist attack in Orlando is that it could have been prevented. The Orlando terrorist strike is the th Islamist terror attack or plot in the United States since Sept. and actually the sixth Islamist domestic terror plot of .
If similarities of warning signs in just a few of the successful domestic Islamist terrorist attacks during the two terms of the Obama administration had been recognized and acted on the wouldbe Orlando terrorist would likely have been stopped.
Six months ago the December ISISinspired San Bernardino massacre could have been prevented but for the chilling effect of political correctness. A neighbor of the Islamist terrorist couple Tashfeen Malik and Syed Farook revealed that in the weeks before the terrorist killing spree there had been a flurry of warning signs a multitude of package deliveries and Middle Eastern individuals coming and going at all hours.
Yet that neighbor chose not to alert the police for fear of being labeled racist or Islamophobic.
The Islamist Boston Marathon bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev had a highrisk profile due to six months of travel to a known Islamist terrorist training area overseas.
But with the Obama administration having extended political correctness into law enforcement a few years earlier requiring the systematic purge of FBI counterterrorism training manuals of some pages that were considered offensive to Muslims Bostonbased law enforcement decided not to monitor Tsarnaev enabling him to take his time and pick his target with relative ease.
When selfdescribed soldier of Allah Nidal Hassan killed in the Fort Hood shooting spree the Defense Department recorded the incident as workplace violence. The DOD bureaucracy had almost no other choice as it was then in the midst of a politically driven purge at West Point and the Naval War College of all vital references to Islamist ideology driving terrorism or conflating terrorism with Islam.
The politically correct posture of providing protection for radical Muslims began in the first year of the Obama administration according to Philip Haney who helped establish the Department of Homeland Security DHS after .
Haneys DHS superiors appointed by Obama ordered him in November to scrub his database and delete hundreds of records of individuals tied to designated Islamist terror groups like Hamas from the Treasury Enforcement Communications System database.
These types of records are what Immigration Control and Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection officers use for connecting the dots and identifying individuals associated with known terrorist affiliations who might be entering or exiting the country.
We have all heard that the first step in solving a problem is being able to describe and understand it. When the country has just suffered its eighth and worst terrorist attack in the last years driven by radical Islamist ideology in Orlando and the CommanderinChief cannot describe it as such it is time for Congress to act.
The most direct way of ending the subordination of U.S. national security to political correctness is for Congress to formally declare war on ISIS and all other radical Islamist terrorist individuals and groups whether outside or inside the United States.
Declaring war on ISIS and radical Islamist terrorism is the best first step in ending political correctness and its deadly consequences. It would empower Americans to use their eyes and ears to help the FBI and local law enforcement identify terrorists in the homeland.
Overseas the U.S. would gain the respect of allies and be in a better position to lead a coalition of forces to defeat ISIS once politically correct guidelines are replaced with best warfighting practices in all our military and intelligence services.
You are leaving AARP.org and going to the website of our trusted provider. The providers terms conditions and policies apply. Please return to AARP.org to learn more about other benefits.
Manage your email preferences and tell us which topics interest you so that we can prioritize the information you receive.
Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try again.
What Social Security Questions Should We Ask the Presidential Candidates Vote Now andTake a Stand 
Online shopping playing cards and spending time with friends are all linked to better brain health as we age
Members can apply for term coverage from AARP Life Insurance Program from New York Life.
Members can locate discounts on the go via the AARP Member Advantages Offer Finder app.
Actress Valerie Harper stands up to cancer by living life to the fullest learn her invaluable secrets to joy
Up to percent of people age plus have some hearing loss and much of the time it is left untreated
Big increases in some Medicare premiums are expected according to the annual trustees reports
Figure out which longterm care insurance option best meets your health care needs
The full story of the Zika virus is still unfolding. For now heres what you need to know
When her mothers only kidney started to fail Marthita Cosgalla donated one of hers
How much do you know about the symptoms of a heart attack and what should you do to survive
Feeling tired These commonly prescribed drugs could be the cause of your fatique
A growing number of people are abusing prescription painkillers sometimes with fatal consequences
Visit the AARP state page forinformation about events news and resources near you.
AARP is a nonprofit nonpartisan organization that helps people and older improve the quality of their lives.
A highly developed sense of sight is of utmost importance because it really helps us in our daily endeavours.
When you have dark circles under your eyes people may think you look tired or have pushed yourself too hard at work.
Aging affects different parts of your body in various ways. When it comes to your skin aging causessagging dryness a.
You need to try theEstee LauderAdvanced Night Repaircream to get the best results when you are wearing a night cre.
A highly developed sense of sight is of utmost importance because it really helps us in our daily endeavours. It is unfortunate that many people are losing their sense of sight due to advances in technology which has led to the unprecedented use of mobile phones televisions and computers. These devices emit rays which have been proven to have a detrimental effect on the eyesight of those who use them for long periods. Fortunately a number of solutions have been advanced by specialists to help maintain the eyes. This keeps them healthy at all times.
In as much as many people ignore this aspect it is very beneficial in ensuring that the eyes stay healthy even as one gets old. The protection of the eyes begins with eating a healthy diet. It is particularly important to feed on lots of fruits and vegetables because they contain vitamins which play a role in enhancing sharp vision. Foods that are rich in antioxidants such as carrots also need to be emphasized. They can help rebuild deteriorated visions thus highlighting their role in ensuring the overall wellbeing of the eyes.Singapore Lasikcentres often advice patients about the right combination of foods that are beneficial to the eyes.
Due to the fact that the eyes stay open during the day it is important to give them ample rest. This ensures that they get rejuvenated after the rigors of a busy day at work.Singapore Lasikspecialists recommend that the eyes be rested for at least seven hours a day to enhance their performance.
This is an eyecare aspect that is widely ignored by most people. Specialists recommend that one should not sit in front of TVs or laptops for long because these devices emit rays that are harmful. It is also advisable to keep rooms softly lit. When reading one needs to avoid florescence lighting and instead use a shaded source of light which ought to be placed in front of the reading desk.
The harmful effects of cigarette smoking on the eyes are widely documented. Research has shown that this habit causes the iris to dry up. This is a prerequisite for infections which diminishes the power of the eyes.
When you have dark circles under your eyes people may think you look tired or have pushed yourself too hard at work. In reality dark circles can happen for many different reasons such as allergy season and your genes. If you have treated those dark circles before but they continue to come back dont lose hope. Knowing why they happen can help you minimize their appearance or prevent them altogether.
Its common for both men and women to develop dark circles under their eyes. Some factors include ethnicity and lack of sleep. According toWebMD people with Asian or African backgrounds often have more pigment around their eyes. This condition is known as periorbital hyperchromia. However your dark circles may keep coming back for entirely different reasons.
Other contributing factors for dark circles include excess sun exposure pregnancy and anaemia. Even nasal congestion can lead to swelling of blood vessels near your eyes and cause a darker appearance.
Make lifestyle changes if you drink smoke or eat unhealthy foods. Staying hydrated can also have a positive effect on dark circles and also benefit your body in other ways. If youre suffering from allergies an antihistamine may relieve your symptoms and reduce dark circles. Using adark circle eye creamcan also minimize their appearance and reduce puffiness. In fact having a regular skin care regimen may brighten the area around your eyes and restore the look of your skin.
You dont have to live with dark circles under your eyes. If they keep coming back making various changes such as using eye creams getting enough sleep and quitting bad habits can reduce dark or puffy eyes and replenish your skin.
Aging affects different parts of your body in various ways. When it comes to your skin aging causessagging dryness and lack of resilience. You gradually lose the reserves of collagen in the layers of your skin resulting in lines and wrinkles.
Facial wrinkles change your appearance until you might no longer recognise yourself in the mirror. Pucker lines around your mouth are among the most noticeable and difficult to conceal.
Pucker lines form for several reasons. As the ligaments that frame your mouth loosen your cheeks sag making lip lines more noticeable. If older members of your family have pronounced pucker lines you are more likely to get them according to theMayo Clinic.
Sunlight is another source of facial wrinkles. Ultraviolet radiation causes about percent of premature aging in the skin according to aNew York Times report. UV rays reach deep beneath the epidermis and damage the collagen a protein that supports healthy skin. UV radiation also weakens the elastin in your dermal layers making them looser and less resilient. Your best defense against sun damage is to limit UV exposure and use sunscreen when you are young.
Cigarette smokeaffects your collagen too. It slows down your bodys natural renewal processes causing fissures beneath the skin and ultimately surface wrinkles. When you smoke toxins come into direct contact with your lip area where they contribute to pucker lines. You can take a stand against age lines by kicking the habit before it becomes too late.
Pucker lines also result from repetitive pursing. If you always have a water bottle at hand you probably pucker up frequently to take a sip. Habitual smoking requires lots of pursing too. Switching to more lipfriendly habits can help prevent pucker lines later on. For example try using a widemouthed water bottle to minimize pursing.
Gum chewingprobably contributes to pucker lines says an article in the Telegraph. Repeated chewing motions may cause muscle fatigue and the breakdown of supporting tissues resulting in wrinkles around the mouth. Remember this the next time you reach for a pack of chewing gum in the checkout line.
Beauty and health experts recommend specialised products to prevent pucker lines. According to The Dermatology Review thebest lip balmcontains collagen boosters such as peptides that promote plumper more elastic lips. Similarly some of thebest antiaging productlines contain retinol which works to thicken your dermal layers and smooth out fine lines. Alphahydroxy acid is another effective skin care ingredient that helps reduce the appearance of pucker lines.
While it is difficult to overcome heredity you can prevent or minimize pucker lines around your mouth in other ways. Combining good skin care habits preventative measures and the best antiaging products available is an excellent strategy for wrinkle defense.
You need to try theEstee LauderAdvanced Night Repaircream to get the best results when you are wearing a night cream. Anyone who is planning on making a change to their routine needs to start with this cream because it has been the industry standard for such a long time. The cream is a great thing for you to use when you want your face to recover after a long day and you can use it any time you really need help.
The night cream is a good start for any woman who might not have the right kind of regimen today and it is a good idea for women to follow the instructions on the package. It is something that you really need to get into your skin and you need to consider what it will feel like when you get up in the morning with softer skin. The Lauder cream does not work overnight but you will start to see results pretty quickly.
There are a lot of people who try this for the first time because they want to look younger but you get a much better feeling on your skin. Your skin will be softer long before you notice that you are looking younger. You can actually freeze yourself in the age you are now if you get started immediately.
Most women who are trying to use these regimens will be able to get nice results when they start young. A girl who starts at will probably look like she is for the rest of her life and an older woman who has been doing this for a long time will be able to look great all the time even when she is much older. You can live well into your golden years looking much younger because you committed to this product.
The product that you are using comes in a tub that you must rub on yourself and the cream is very heavy. You will get much better results if you have been rubbing it on the right way. You can cover every part of your face and neck and you can even use it on your hands and feet. You can get a lot of great results out of this product that you will not get from other products.
Lauder has created something that will make any woman look amazing and you can lean on this product until you are well into your s or s. You will look ridiculously young because you have invested the time and money in keeping your skin soft and young and you will see the results as compared to other people who know who are just not doing the same work you are.
Every woman who wants to have nice skin needs to make sure that she is wearing this night cream to look her best. There is no better way to change your outlook on life and your appearance with just one night cream.
Everyone is getting it but nobodys talking about it. Why Are they too embarrassed to admit it In this day and age minimal to noninvasive cosmetic procedures haverevolutionized the way to turn back the hands of time with minimal to no downtime.
Botox fillersare very effective in reducing the appearance of wrinkles. Botox works by blocking movement of the muscles that cause dynamic wrinkles. These are the kind of wrinkles you get when you move your face such as the lines you get around your eyes when you squint or the wrinkles you get in your forehead when you furrow your brow.
On the other hand static wrinkles are the wrinkles hat you see when your face is relaxed. These lines are etched in your skin all the time whether you are making facial expressions or not. Although Botox cant change the appearance of static lines longterm use can help prevent static wrinkles from deepening.
Botox is usually used for wrinkles in the upper portion of the face i.e. glabellar forehead and eyes but it can used to reduce the appearance of wrinkles in other parts of the face when injected by a skilled physician.
In addition nonsurgical rhinoplasty can be performed by usingnose fillers usually in the form hyaluronic acid. By injecting fillers around the nose physicians are able to augment the shape of the patients nose.
Youve finally decided to undergo Botox injections but you need find a board certified physician. Ideally you should shop around and find a physician who is highly qualified in giving Botox injections. Most cosmetic surgeons offer free consultations to new clients so dont hesitate to book several appointments throughout a week or two before deciding on a doctor to perform your procedure.
Although there are many specialists who may advertise as being experts in the Botox biz only certified doctor or nurse under physician supervision. Ultimately you should feel comfortable with your doctor and their staff. Ask about their procedures and follow up protocol and dont feel embarrassed to leave if youre just not feeling the vibes of a certain office. If you have any inkling that something just seems off with the physician trust you gut feeling and have another opinion before undergoing Botox.
As with most things in life you get what you pay for. While budget shouldnt be the ultimate determining factor in the physician you choose to administer your Botox injections it undoubtedly will play a role in who you decide on. Make sure that you narrow your options down to two or three of the best offers and go with the physician who has a decent price and all the qualifications necessary to give you the security and quality of care you deserve.
For people who cant lose the weight that makes them morbidly obese no matter how much they diet or exercise and for people who suffer from such diseases as diabetesweight loss surgeryandmetabolic surgerymay be the last resort.
Basicallyweight loss surgery also called bariatric surgery is surgery that reduces the amount of food the stomach can hold. This tricks the body into thinking the stomach is full. The person is satiated and stops eating. This is called a restrictiveweight loss surgery. Some bariatric surgeries also deliberately cause malabsorption because the parts of the small intestine that usually absorb fats and other nutrients are rearranged or removed.
In this restrictive surgery the doctor places a band around the top of the stomach which forms a pouch. The band can be adjusted and even removed. This makes lap band surgery reversible unlike other bariatric surgeries.
In this restrictive procedure a large part of the stomach is removed. What is left resembles a sleeve which gives the operation its name. Whats left of the stomach is still able to normally digest food but less of it. The operation is done with the aid of a miniaturized camera and miniaturized tools and the incisions in the abdomen are small. This cuts down on the risks of surgery and gives the patient a shorter recovery time.
This is both a restrictive and malabsorptive procedure. In this surgery a pouch is created at the top of the stomach and connected to a section of the small intestine. The duodenum which is at the end of the stomach is attached to a lower section of the small intestine creating the characteristic Y shape.
This surgery removes a large portion of the stomach as in the straight sleeve gastrectomy but the duodenum is removed and a section of the small intestine put in its place. The duodenum and another section of the upper small intestine are then reconnected to the small intestine near the beginning of the colon. The gallbladder is also removed. Because the size of the stomach is reduced this operation is restrictive. Because the small intestine is rearranged and the gall bladder removed it is also malabsorptive.
After the surgeries the patients are started on a liquid diet that lasts for a few weeks. They are then fed purees or soft foods that are high in proteins though carbohydrates are discouraged. Their doctor and dietitian instruct the patient on what foods to eat and in what quantities. Because their bodies arent absorbing as many nutrients as before bariatric patients need to take multivitamin pills.
Patients generally lose a substantial amount of weight fairly rapidly after the surgeries especially if they are very restrictive. Medical experts have also found that people who suffer from type diabetes often recover from the condition within days after the surgery even before they start to lose weight. Medical researchers do not know why this is though patients are pleased that the risks and complications of the disease have been removed.
Everyone knows eating breakfast is the most important meal of the day. Breakfast provide you with energy to start your day. It is also important to replace fluids that were lost after sleeping in order to maintain hydration.
One a tablespoon ofpeanut butteron whole grain toast will provide enough protein to start your morning engine. Whole grain bread is a good option because it has fibre to help your bowels functioning properly.
Two fruit is another healthy food that is just right for breakfast. Bananas and apples are great fruit options that can be eaten on the go. Oranges and grapefruit are loaded with vitamin C to protect you from colds and illness. Kiwi strawberries blueberries pineapple and other fruits all offer natural fuel to help you on a busy day.
Three protein dairy and vegetables make an omelette the perfect recipe for breakfast. Add a side of bacon sausage and potatoes for a meal that will fill you until lunch time.
Four a smoothie is the perfect breakfast for someone in a hurry in the morning. Make a smoothie with a variety of fruits yogurt milk or juice vegetables and protein powder for an easy breakfast treat.
Five a fibre filled cereal will not only fill you up but it is also good for your digestive system. Add fruit for extra flavour and vitamins.
Six breakfast burritos can be filled with ingredients that are filling and good for you. Start with a soft shelled wheat tortilla. Fill it with scrambled eggs peppers onions mushrooms black beans salsa verde and ground turkey for a healthy breakfast to keep the hunger pains away until lunch.
Seven cut an avocado in half and remove the pit from the middle. Scoop out the avocado from both halves and mix them in a bowl until smooth. Spread the avocado over wholegrain toast. Add salt and pepper then top with an over easy egg. This makes a wellrounded meal to start your day right.
Eight an easy breakfast can be found in your refrigerator. Simply spread cottage cheese on whole wheat to toast. Top with sliced apples and cinnamon for a morning treat.
Nine yogurt is a great breakfast option since it will help build calcium for strong bones. The best choice is plain yogurt then add honey and fresh fruit for a healthy start to your day.
Ten for a unique breakfast trykaya spread also referred to as coconut jam. You can either make it fresh or buy kaya spreadfrom a can. Melt butter on toast spread kaya on top and you have an easy tasty breakfast.
Making a healthy breakfast doesnt have to be time consuming. There are many easy recipes that will help you start your day on the right foot.
There are more people today with eye conditions than a century ago. Children as young as five years can be seen with spectacles. This makes it necessary for us to look into the causes of eyesight problems. The most common forms of eye conditions are short sight ormyopiaand farsightedness. A different form ofeye problemsis eye infections.Most of the causes ofeye problemsare obvious to most people. The first is poor lighting. Generally working or reading in poor lighting strains the eye. Such strain over a long period of time results in short sight that is also called myopia. Another cause of short sight which is similar to the first one is reading fine print for too long and working at computers for extended for long periods of time. The glare of a computer screen is not friendly to the eyes. Other than these three short sight is sometimes inherited from a family member who suffers from it. This condition can be treated throughLasik Singapore.
Farsightedness may also be inherited. Besides this it is a condition that is commonly associated with age. Most people are diagnosed with farsightedness when they are over forty years of age. It may also be caused when one suffers from another disease such as diabetes. In fact diabetes has been held to be a cause of both short sight and long sight. Like shortsight farsightedness can also be treated throughLasik Singapore.
Causes of eyesight problems cannot be considered exhaustively without considering the causes of eye infections. These can be caused by viruses fungi or bacteria. Some diseases such as gonorrhoea and Chlamydia which are caused by bacteria can reach the eye. This occurs when a person rubs or touches their eyes after handling the infected genital areas. The most famous eye problem which results from touch is the pink eye which lasts between one and two weeks.
Hygiene is also key to a discussion on the causes ofeye problems. It is important that people wash their hands because hands may be used to transmit bacteria or viruses to the eye. For instance there is a particular infection caused by organisms that are picked from the fur and bodies of cats. Failure to wash hands after handling a cat may therefore expose one to such an infection. It is important to know that when infections are not well treated they can result in blindness. They need prompt attention from a doctor.
Many people today need to knowhow to get thicker hair. Whether they are losing hair naturally or due to illness or injury no one likes hair loss. Natural treatments are often suitable to help regrow lost hair for many people.
A quick and easy way to improve hairs appearance is to give it thickening treatments. One of the best treatments is an egg. Take one or two eggs and beat till well mixed. Apply to damp clean hair. Allow to rest in hair for at least a half an hour. Afterwards wash out with warm water and gentle shampoo. The rich proteins in the egg work to naturally repair and rebuilt hair shafts. This helps the hair look its thickest. Avocado is another good hair treatment. Mix half a well mashed avocado with several teaspoons of olive oil. Rub into the hair being sure to get the ends and the roots. The avocado and oil help to nourish both hair shaft and scalp. Wash out after or minutes.
Castor oil is often believed to be one of the best treatments for thinner hair. It has many good properties that help grow hair. Theoil itselfhas natural antifungal and antiinflammatory properties. Many people have harmless and naturally occurring low levels of skin pathogens. While harmless to the skin they can slow or halt hair growth in some people if they get out of balance. Castor oil removes these pathogens. For some people this is enough to grow thicker hair. In other people usingcastor oil for hairallows the skin to heal. Inflammation of the skin can hurt healthy hair growth. Before using castor oil on hair and scalp it must be thinned. Mix a thinner oil such as olive or coconut with castor oil at a ratio of twothirds base to one third castor oil. A few drops of a scented essential oil can be added if desired. Work the castor oil mix into the scalp once a week. Allow it to sink in before washing. It will do far more than just nourish and treat the scalp. It is also an amazing hair conditioner. Hair shafts treated with castor oil will feel soft and full.
Getting a goodvitamin for hair growthfor healthy hair growth is essential. Most people get the vitamins they need from a wellbalanced diet. Eating plenty of vegetables and healthy proteins will help thick and healthy hair grow from the inside. There are a few supplements that can further encourage hair growth. Biotin is anessential vitaminthat many people simply dont get enough of in their diet. This is a watersoluble vitamin that can be taken orally. It helps people to form proteins. Taking biotin helps the body to build thick and healthy hair.
Growing thick and luxurious hair can feel like a difficult undertaking. Eating the right foods taking a vitamin and treating the scalp right can help grow the best head of hair possible. Thin dry hair can soon be a thing of the past.
Other than opting for plastic surgery there are several useful techniques that can give you younger looking lips. These anti agingtips are designed to make your lips appear fuller and more beautiful without going under the knife. From keeping your lips out of the sun to using the right moisturising lip balm you can make your lips appear years younger. The three main causes of aged lips are dryness loss of plumpness and fine lines. By minimising these three causes you can have fuller more luscious lips.
Sunlight can cause your skin to dehydrate and can ultimately lead to premature wrinkles. Each morning you should start out by using a lip moisturiser that contains SPF or higher. In addition thebest lip balmto start out your day should have Shea butter or vitamin E to hydrate your lips. The additional moisture will immediately make your lips appear healthier while the SPF will slow down the process of ageing.
Unless you are one of the lucky few who were born with full lips you can fake fullness by using lipstick and lip liner. Using a pencil draw a line just outside of the bow at the top lip. On your bottom lip do the same technique just below the lip in the middle. You want to only redraw the middle of your lips because redrawing the entire lip ends up looking phony. After this step you can apply lipstick like normal. For an added boost add a little bit of lip gloss on just the centre of your lips.
After a long day your lips need to be treated to a moisturising session. Antiageing treatments that contain phytoestrogens hyaluronic acid retinols and peptides can help to naturally stimulate your collagen production. By doing this every night you are naturally increased the firmness and fullness of your lips. To ensure the best results combine your lipfocused creams with antiageing remedies that also target the fine lines around the lips.
The three main steps to perfect lips are exfoliating moisturising and plumping. While the previous steps targeted moisturising and plumping your lips you will still need to exfoliate regularly for luscious youthful looking lips. If you are rushed for time running a wet washcloth across your lips can be a simple way to exfoliate. You can also use a dry toothbrush or a lip exfoliator to reduce the dry skin on your lips. In addition exfoliating will help to increase the fullness of your lips by stimulating blood flow. Since exfoliating can irritate your lips make sure to follow up each treatment with a good moisturiser.
You deserve to look and feel your best at every age. By exfoliating moisturising and plumping your lips you can reduce the fine lines and dryness associated with ageing. With a consistent lip regimen you can get the luscious alluring lips you have been dreaming about.
Although the research team did not look at any direct links between the MMR measles mumps and rubella vaccine and IBD their discovery could reopen the debate over whether the vaccine could be responsible for some cases.
The vaccine infects children with a weakened form of the live viruses to encourage an immune response which protects against the real thing.
So immunised children do come into contact with a much less powerful form of the two diseases in close succession.
However the deafblind charity Sense urged parents to continue to immunise their children with the MMR vaccine.
They warned that failure to do so could lead to more cases of rubella German measles and a rise in the number of children born disabled as a result.
The discovery of the link by a team from the Royal Free Hospital in London has been hailed as a major step forward in finding a cure for incurable inflammatory bowel diseases IBDs such as Crohns Disease and ulcerative colitis.
Another team from the Royal Free opened the original MMR controversy with reports published in the Lancet in which linked the MMR vaccine to IBD.
The Royal Free team studied data from people all born in one week in .
They found children aged four to six who contracted measles and mumps in the same year were four times more likely to develop Crohns Disease and seven times more likely to develop ulcerative colitis.
Crohns disease has become five times more common in young adults since the s and while it is treatable it is not curable.
Now we have an idea about the causes we can work towards better treatments and a cure.
We now need to do more work on this. More people are developing Crohns and other IBDs than in the s so we need to start looking at possible cures.
Dr Montgomery said the combined impact of two childhood infections in rapid succession might prompt the immune system to turn against itself leading in the long term to the development of IBDs.
IBDs are painful diseases affecting the intestine. Sufferers often spend their lives going through periods of remission followed by relapse.
Crohns disease usually causes ulcers open sores all along the length of the small and large intestines. It may also cause inflammation or infection around the rectum.
Ulcerative colitis usually causes ulcers in the lower part of the large intestine often starting at the rectum.
Both Crohns disease and ulcerative colitis can be controlled by drugs and some patients have to undergo surgery to remove parts of the affected intestine.
Joe Harding and Jay Wright both were young WSU faculty when they met under unusual circumstances.
More than years later that accidental meeting has blossomed through friendship and research collaboration into hundreds of journal articles eight patented commercial applications and creation of Pacific Northwest Biotechnology a privately held corporation fueled by outside investors.
This all began in when Harding moved his family to Pullman. An unscrupulous real estate agent rented Harding a house which also had been leased to Wright and his family.
VA Research Week is designed to call attention to the achievements of VA researchers and the role they play in providing high quality care for veterans and advancing medical science.
It is an opportunity to educate Veterans our elected representatives and the public about the research at VA medical centers and its impact on treating and preventing disease and disability.
This years theme is Caring for Veterans through Discovery Collaboration.
VA researchers are working to finding better ways to accurately diagnoseTBI and PTSD.
Since more than . million U.S. troops have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. The signature injuries of these wars posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD and traumatic brain injury TBI affect large numbers of returning Veterans and cant easily be diagnosed with a blood test brain scan or other lab test.
Even as VA clinicians apply the latest methods to help Veterans affected by TBI and PTSD VA researchers are working to find better ways to accurately diagnose the two conditions especially in cases where they may overlap in confusing ways.
For example in a small pilot study a team with VA and the University of California San Diego found that a combination of two imaging technologies magnetoencephalography MEG and diffusion tensor imaging DTI can show subtle brain injuries that go undetected in conventional CT and MRI scans.
MEG picks up the signals that neurons give off when they fire. DTI picks up abnormalities in the brains nerve fibers. More research using these technologies is now underway.
Families of Veterans who have sustained multiple polytrauma injuries are the focus of research by a team based at the Minneapolis VA Medical Center home to one of VAs four main polytrauma centers.
One study underway is called Family and Caregiver Experiences with Polytrauma or FACES.
Lead investigator Joan Griffin PhD says the study should provide muchneeded information about the current and longterm needs of familiespeople who in many cases will continue to be involved in their loved ones care for years or even decades to come.
Other studies by the Minneapolis group aim to make VA polytrauma care more familycentered. That means involving families in the care plan giving them the right resources and seeing to their needs.
If we keep families informed and involved in a way that they want to be involved and in which the patient wants them to be involved adherence to treatment and outcomes are likely to be better says Nina Sayer PhD research chairperson for the polytraumabrain injury Quality Research Enhancement Initiative.
From Smart Electrodes to Electric Bandages APT Center Researchers are Forging a New Generation of Adaptive Devices
What goes on at the Advanced Platform Technology APT Center might sound more like something out of a science fiction novel by Isaac Asimov or Robert A. Heinlein. At this Research Center of Excellence based at the Louis Stokes VA Medical Center in Cleveland scientists and engineers are developing a material that can mimic brain tissue.
Others are refining a musclepowered brace that could allow paraplegics to walk and climb stairs. Still others are creating disposable electric bandages to promote faster healing of wounds and artificial limbs that sync up with the nervous system. We try to capitalize on advances in materials science and microelectronics says APT Center Executive Director Ronald Triolo PhD.
A case in point is a new type of electrode for use in braincomputer systems. Existing brain electrodes are made of stiff silicon so they dont fit well in the watery environment of the brain. An APT Center team has created a material that softens once inside the brain rendering it mechanically invisible.
To learn more about VA research and events marking this years National VA Research Week April and VA Central Office events April visit www.research.va.gov.
THREE large open medical schemes have announced their contribution increases for next year with average increases on two schemes coming in at just below percent and the third coming in at more than percent. Last year medical schemes implemented increases that averaged about . percent while claims that schemes paid on behalf of members rose by percent. Schemes say the trend of contribution income not keeping pace with increases in claims has continued this year making higher contribution increases necessary.
DISCOVERY Holdingss Destiny Health business has formed a marketing venture with Aegon the to sell its health insurance products in Illinois Wisconsin Colorado and Michigan. Destiny would use Aegon Direct Marketing Services to distribute its products Discovery said. The products of Chicagobased Destiny would be underwritten by Aegons Stonebridge Life Insurance unit the company said.
CONSOLIDATION among SAs open medical aid schemes is urgently needed to bring down costs boost member benefits and improve efficiencies says Jannie Kotze CEO of Johannesburgbased Resolution Health.
Although the number of open schemes has fallen to from in the past two years there is substantial room for mergers among small schemes to benefit significantly from economies of scale.
If one excludes the largest Discovery Health principal members and Bonitas out of a total membership of just over million in excluding about million beneficiaries there are schemes chasing the other million members and this is not sustainable says Kotze whose scheme has principal members and more than beneficiaries.
Researchers and actuaries say that principal members is viable for a stable medical scheme base. With the average open scheme membership just many schemes are too small to be actuarially stable and need to merge.
Increased bargaining power with hospital and medical service provider networks
There needs to be a mindset change in the leadership of some small schemes as it is inevitable that mergers will have to take place. Schemes that leave it too long to find suitable merger partners will discover that their good risk has jumped off and left them financially vulnerable and unattractive merger partners.
Kotze says another factor that lends itself towards consolidation is the proliferation of complicated options offered by schemes.
Not only does the medical schemes sector need fewer players it also needs less options and a return to more traditional healthcare plans. These plans must offer hospitalisation cover and a set number of visits to doctors and specialists that can easily be understood by scheme members. There are simply too many complicated healthcare options on the market he says.
The inspirational video below will tell youthestory of a girl who could have given up but.
What you eat is extremely important for building your immune system. All our dietary flaws like.
Dr. Mark Hyman is one of the leaders in teaching people how to apply natural therapy.
In todays modern age it can be easy to forget some of the more common medicinal.
Not all foods are equally beneficial for our health. Some of them of them are destructive.
The inspirational video below will tell youthestory of a girl who could have given up but didnt indulge weakness and continued to fight. The girl was diagnosed with bone.
What you eat is extremely important for building your immune system. All our dietary flaws like a lack of fruits and vegetables are going to come back to us.
Dr. Mark Hyman is one of the leaders in teaching people how to apply natural therapy to detox our bodies and improve health. His personal experience ofproblems with his.
In todays modern age it can be easy to forget some of the more common medicinal methods of the Native Americans. In fact the knowledge of the ancient cultures.
Not all foods are equally beneficial for our health. Some of them of them are destructive some are favorable and others are soso. But there are also foods that.
Salt has many uses from seasoning your food to maintaining your house. We all know that salt can be great for adding flavor but it can also impact your.
We are surrounded by artificial light sources in our daily life whether it is the light in our office or from our phone screen. Artificial light can impact your.
Do you like getting comfortable in front of the TV after a day of work or on the weekends Maybe even with some notsohealthy snacks at hand And would.
Theres a lot to be gained by being a yes person. You cannot make changes in your life without saying yes to opportunities that present themselves. Never before in.
Elana Simon with her surgeon Dr. LaQuaglia at a celebration for the paper publication Courtesy of Simon family
As a child Elana Simon suffered for years from crippling stomach pain. Yet despite trips to multiple specialists her pain remained a mystery. 
Nothing seemed to be explaining why I was having these problems Elana told NBC News Ann Curry. 
Then at age Elanas bright future hit a terrifying hurdle when she was diagnosed with a rare form of liver cancer. Her parents knew nothing would be the same. The moment that I heard those three words fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma were life changing said her mother Rachael Migler. 
What they didnt know was just how their lives would be changed that Elana would not only recover from the cancer but embark on a journey of scientific discovery that would lead her as a New York high school student to make a discovery so cuttingedge it was published in a major science journal. 
Research on Elanas type of cancer commonly known as fibrolamellar has been limited. Experts estimate that roughly cases are diagnosed annually in the U.S. mostly among women under the age of . For many patients the prognosis is grim with about percent surviving five years after being diagnosed. In many cases symptoms dont appear until the cancer has already spread. 
There was very little understanding theres still very little understanding of hepatocellular carcinoma across the board said Elanas surgeon Dr. Michael LaQuaglia Chief of the Pediatric Surgical Service at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. 
But Elana Simon was born into a family of scientists and her instinct was to ask questions. Her mother is a trained biologist and her father Sandy Simon an esteemed biophysicist at Manhattans Rockefeller University. 
Ive been lucky in that I grew up with one of these scientists and so to me it seems completely normal to you know pursue a research question that you have she said. 
Elana was doing research for a high school internship when she had the idea to genetically sequence fibrolamellar. She realized that the quest to find a cancercausing mutation is incredibly complex especially since many mutations are often due to age alone. I thought OK well if over time you keep getting more and more random mutations wouldnt you rather just study something thats younger but its gonna have less of these random background mutations Elana explained. 
Elana approached her surgeon with the idea and asked him for help. Together Elana and Dr. LaQuaglia reached out to patients across the country for tumor samples. 
Elana also worked with the Fibrolamellar Cancer Foundation to put together an outreach YouTube video for other patients. The video worked. Weve had people contacting us and saying Hi I found your video online. This is incredible. What can I do to help How can I get you my tumor she told NBC News. 
What they found was remarkable. A genetic mutation caused part of one gene to attach to part of another gene creating a unique protein called a chimera. This chimera was present in all tumor samples. 
We found is theres one key that was broken in each of the tumors and that key turns out to be something that nobody has ever seen before and is probably crucial in driving Elanas tumor said Dr. Robert Darnell who headed the team at the New York Genome Center. 
In this unusual collaboration with physicians geneticists and computational biologists the yearold coauthored a study published in the prestigious journal Science in February. 
Darnell of the New York Genome Center characterized the finding as part of an emerging field of patientdriven science. 
This was really a great example of a single patientdriven project. he said. It will help drive the science and I think even help drive the pharmaceutical companies to focus on a new kind of target that they havent thought about before. 
There are other unsung heroes behind Elanas efforts. The year after her surgery Elana met a boy named Tucker Davis at a charity event for fibrolamellar. Davis had fibrolamellar and knew he was dying. Elana remembers a conversation when he told her he felt he got the cancer because his parents have the money to help make a difference. 
I kind of realized that thats probably why I got it too. Not because we have the money but because you know my dads a scientist. Elana said. And I have the resources to potentially make a difference too. 
Tucker died at years old in but before his death Tucker founded the Fibrolamellar Cancer Foundation dedicated to raising awareness funding research and establishing a community for this rare and deadly disease. The foundation built a lab at Rockefeller University where the research will continue. A plaque outside the lab bears Tuckers name. 
Elana and her father say though their results are promising more research needs to be done to confirm that this chimera is responsible for fibrolamellar. They have begun to make progress in the direction of better diagnostic test and even potential drug treatments to target fibrolamellar based on the discovery. 
Im incredibly proud. it kind of makes me think that the reason that this innocent year old girl got this cancer was so that she would go on and do this work her mother Rachael said. 
Elana also a talented actress dancer and acrobat plans to attend Harvard in the fall to study computer science. She says she is grateful. 
Its just incredible that the research that all started just because I had cancer could actually go potentially help other people. Thats thats amazing. It makes me feel like you know it was so lucky. 
Dr. LaQuaglia Elanas surgeon says theres a bigger message to be taken from Elanas research. The real tragedy in the present moment is the fact that research money from the federal government is getting cut he said. We have such advanced biological and biomedical research techniques that we can do things like this very quickly and I think we can impact not only this disease but other diseases. 
Elana sees hope for other cancers too. She says this collaborative effort could serve as a model for other cancer groups. 
It can be the patients who themselves can try to make a difference in their research she says. 
If youre trying to find some quick motivation for your diet or exercise regime or maybe you just enjoy some light healthy article reading Youve come to the right place
This is a collection of motivational articles and information from professionals in many different fields of health and fitness.
Other authors include just regular people who have struggled overcome and came here to offer their tips of advice and secrets of success.
Have you ever heard the expression use it or lose it Its true If you dont use your body you will surely lose it.
Most people start off strong with an exercise program and then within a few weeks theyve got an excuse for not being there.
A complete fitness program must include aerobic exercise muscular strength and endurance conditioning and flexibility exercise.
Tired of paved roads Want to go where there arent any speed limits If you answered yes then your vehicle of choice could very well be a mountain bike.
The word has been tossed around quite a bit lately. Pilates pronounced Pilahteez used primarily by dancers for deep body conditioning and injury rehabilitation.
Exercise as an antidote to depression and anxiety is not a new concept. In the th century Scotland doctors in mental hospitals prescribed heavy farm chores as the best medicine for their patients and documented marked improvements in mood and behavior.
Having questions about TaeBo and not sure where to start Weve got answers to help you learn the basics.
Today Discovery Communications is celebrating an exciting achievement recognizing the company for something many of us already know Discovery is a great place to work. Named to the Fortune Best Companies to Work For list Discovery wwas chosen for its commitment to creating a healthy and balenced workplace and a culture of innovation inclusion and continuous learning. Discovery is only one of two media companies in the Top .
Discoverys commitment to its core mission of bringing the highest quality content services and products to consumers everywhere begins with the companys workforce. With a global community that spans five continents and over employees Discovery strives to attract and retain the best people in the world by being an employer of choice with a full range of programs designed to encourage a healthy worklife balance and an open and inclusive workplace. From flexible work arrangements to onsite health wellness and daycare services to mentoring and leadership development programs Discovery recognizes that supporting a thriving employee base is key to our success.
To learn more about Discoverys global worklife benefits programs visit our Careers website.
In August Discovery Communications along with Bright Horizons Family Solutions opened Discovery Kids Place and Crikey Cove a stateoftheart green child care center with a oneofakind playground. Located at the global headquarters of Discovery the center is dedicated to Steve Irwin wildlife conservationist and member of the Discovery family. Continuing Discoverys commitment to living and working green the child care center is ecofriendly in its design and operations including the use of recyclable materials in childrens art materials and biodegradable paper goods made from sugar cane fiber. Children learn about the environment and protecting the planet through a green curriculum that is part of the centers programming. Discovery Kids Place most recently celebrated its th Birthday in .
Recognizing that not every child has a safe place to learn and play in December Discovery and Bright Horizons opened the Montgomery County Md. Bright Space a dedicated playroom for atrisk children in a newly renovated space at the Rockville Md.based Family Discovery Center. The childfriendly space was designed to meet the needs of the families with children from birth to three years of age.
The health and wellness of Discoverys workforce and their families is of utmost importance and the company takes a holistic and integrated approach to providing physical mental emotional and spiritual health services highlighted by a fullservice onsite Medical and Wellness Center at the companys world headquarters office in Silver Spring Maryland as well as its Miami New York London and Sterling offices. All full and parttime Discovery employees and their dependents over age on the Discovery health care plan may take advantage of the center services at no charge. The center offers full primary care medical services including urgent and preventive care and behavioral health and nutritional counseling. Care is provided by medical practitioners from Discoverys longtime partner Take Care Health Systems a subsidiary of Walgreens Co..
In addition to the health benefits provided to employees and their families Discovery offers a robust wellness and exercise program. In the Silver Spring and London offices employees may participate in onsite fitness programs ranging from yoga to boot camp throughout the year. In the Los Angeles office employees recently celebrated the launch of Discoverys first onsite gym the Discovery Wellness Studio.
Discoverys view of diversity is informed by the notion that everyone is diverse for a variety of reasons. Certainly our Employee Resource Groups ERGs are comprised along the lines of those more traditional lines of diversity but the employees who make them cross those boundaries. At Discovery ERGs arent only about affinity for and affiliation with a specific interest theyre also about appreciation for the diversity those groups represent. The leaders and members of our ERGs know that the color of a persons skin their gender their age and their sexual orientation dont define them and therefore the groups that they voluntarily participate in dont either. Our newest groups ableD and unidaD join Womens Leadership Network Discovery Veterans Group priDe Black Cultural Alliance Asian Cultural Alliance genD and Working Families Group to offer employees extracurricular opportunities to develop deeper relationship with their colleagues.
The Asian Cultural Alliance aims to champion Asian American employees within Discovery by providing leadership opportunities focusing on professional development efforts and programs and highlighting contributions of Asian American emplyees internally and externally.
The Black Cultural Alliance initiatives are designed to support Discoverys strategic business objectives to ensure a strong pipeline of talented highperforming individuals of African descent and to positively impact the communities in which BCA members live and work.
The Veterans Group serves as Discoverys connection to the military community through outreach programs and recruitment initiatives. Our presence in the military community strengthens Discoverys position as an allinclusive progressive media company and provides internal Veterans with professional networking and mentoring opportunities.
Discoverys priDe employee resource group is for LGBT staff and their allies working to support inclusion recruitment retention development and advancement. priDe serves as a resource to the company for internal external onair and offair matters related to LGBT issues in both the media industry and general corporate environment.
GenD serves as a resource group for Discoverys early career employees encouraging its members from around the globe to develop professionally through leadership skills industry knowledge and crossdivisional relationships.
The Womens Leadership Network aims to foster a strong association among the women of Discovery and their peers to provide resources for leadership and professional development and to act as a catalyst for highperformance execution both at an individual level and companywide.
ableD aims to provide support increased visibility and resources for Discovery employees and their families while promoting disability awareness throughout the Discovery community. ableD supports and recognizes all forms of disabilities both seen and unseen.
unidaD aims to provide a support system for Latino and Hispanic Discovery employees while raising the cultural awareness throughout the greater Discovery community. unidaD also aims to support Discoverys business initiatives through partnering with Discovery networks to provide research development and programming input as needed. unidaD will serve as a forum and resource for employees who selfidentify as Latino or Hispanic and those with genuine curiosity respect and interest in the culture and history.
Learn more about health conditions and diseases that are related to our areas of research.
Learn more about health conditions and diseases that are related to our areas of research.
study normal cellular processes and what causes them to go awry. They are interested in understanding how cancer cells fail to repair damaged DNA reproduce without restraint 
Cancer Center scientists have created two FDAapproved cancer drugs and five experimental therapies currently in clinical trials. These include drugs that trick cancer cells into committing suicide. Clinical trials are also underway to test a technique that uses 
Sanford Childrens Health Research Center are working to uncover the molecular basis of several rare inherited cardiac and skeletal muscle disorders. Our scientists are also pioneering
SBP researchers have helped develop the first treatments for several rare diseases affecting children such as congenital disorders of glycosylation. Scientists in this center have also created a protective coating for the insulinproducing cells that are destroyed by the immune system in 
Inflammatory Disease Center study the relationship between the human body and the bacteria that live within it. happening in a cell or organism and develop the computing and organizational power to make sense of it all.
Scientists in this center study the cells responsible for inflammatory diseases such as inflammatory bowel diseases and discovered a human gene variant that prompts the immune system to attack insulinproducing cells causing 
Neuroscience may be the yin to cancers yang. If aging. Scientists at SBP are advancing the understanding of degenerative diseases as well as the processes of normal aging.
Discoveries made by scientists in the Center have paved the way for development of a drug for Alzheimers that for the first time gets to the root of the problem possibly preventing brain cell death rather than merely masking symptoms caused by loss of these cells. Numerous other strategies are being developed for either protecting cells or replacing cells lost due to 
advanced research technologies in metabolomics genomics and proteomics.
The TRI is expected to hasten the discovery and development of new approaches to diagnose prevent and treat obesity and their cardiovascular complications. One key aim is to produce unique insights into the subclassifications of diabetes thus promoting the advent of 
Medicine approaches disease from the perspective that degeneration malformations and cancer are abnormalities in biological development and homeostasis. The Center explores therapies that invoke and harness developmental processes such as cell repair mechanisms protection molecular and cellular manipulation and drugs that drive direct these processes.
Stem cells are distinguished by their ability to 
The Institute provides scientists with access to stateoftheart instrumentation through a network of over technology cores. This infrastructure supports scientists with advanced technologies that otherwise would be impossible for one lab to afford. Shared Resources also offers investigators the expertise to help design and interpret their experiments and if desired train their lab staff to selfoperate the advanced equipment. 
Scientists have used advanced technologies to empower their research and accelerate their discoveries. Investigators use metabolomics to profile patient samples to gain insight about how diseases develop differently between individuals. Other technologies such as genomics and proteomics aid in identifying new biomarkers that may allow for more precise and earlier diagnosis. 
The Office of Technology Management and Commercialization helps bring biomedical research innovations to the marketplace as new therapies. Our business development team is also actively engaged in developing relationships with potential partners and funding organizations for the advancement of shared research initiatives.
Since the Institutes founding in our research has led to more than patents and license agreements with strategic partners. We are proud to partner with OrthoMcNeilJanssen Pharmaceuticals Inc. a division of Johnson Johnson Takeda to advance our discoveries to the clinical research stage more quickly. 
Where do new medicines come from SBP is bridging the gap between basic research carried out in academic research laboratories and FDA approval of new medicines. The Conrad Prebys Center for Chemical Genomics Prebys Center at SBP screens chemical compounds by the millions to find the few that could potentially be developed into new medicines.
In the past most new drugs and therapies came from the laboratories of pharmaceutical companies. In a major shift Takeda Pharmaceuticals among others to get new drugs into the pipeline for the diseases where the need is greatest. 
Increasing blood vessel growth in the heart could help heart attack patientsRead More
New technology provides a means of homing drugs or nanoparticles to injured areas.Read More
New way to overcome cancers hypoxia resistance also starves them of energyRead More
Skin color prejudice exists around the world but dont just take it from a pale white lady.
In this Birth Day clip a condition of preeclampsia causes the doctor and patient to change their original plan on a completely natural childbirth.
In Vienna childbed fever caused death among many pregnant patients. Consequently Dr. Ignaz Semmelweis began an experiment where his doctors washed their hands. Learn more about this experiment on the Science Channels Greatest Discoveries.
After being pulled out of his home by a tornado a man lands in a nearby field with no significant injuries. The strength of his bones protected him. Bones resiliency is discussed in this Discovery Channel video.
After the recovery of Kasey Edwards arm from the belly of an aggressive alligator doctors work to reattach it on this clip from Disocvery Channels I Was Bitten.
During the summer air conditioners are a part of most everyones life. Find out how they work in this HowStuffWorks video.
Dr. Lydie Hazan offers tips to get you started on the National Body Challenge. Learn more about fitness in this video from Discovery.
The cars of the future are expected to be equipped with safety sensors that make driving even safer. Learn more about this technology on Discovery Channels Future Car.
A man who called himself Count von Cosel kept a terrible secret for years and now its part of a museum. Plus some frankly pedestrian advice on how to achieve good sleep.
Engineers are testing an experimental train that floats on a magnetic field called Maglev for magnetic levitation. Learn more about this speedy vehicle on Discovery Channels series Extreme Engineering.
Microsoft has teamed up with researchers in the Netherlands to generate a new Dprinted Rembrandt painting. Plus an important update to the AP style guide.
It turns out bats are way more clever than we might have given them credit for. Plus theres a lot of weird stuff on the U.S. one dollar bill.
Colorism is a form of skin prejudice that exists all around the world. Learn more about colorism in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Josh and Chuck discuss the implications of humans reproducing on a colonized Mars then talk about an absurd Texas bill that would have required criminals to notify their victims in advance or face additional charges.
Public wifi can be an enormously convenient thing it helps people dodge data charges in coffee shops airports and other places around the globe. But how safe is it Tune in to learn more.
Recently Aaron Chervenak married his smartphone at the Little Las Vegas Chapel. It may have just been a symbolic gesture for him but objectum sexuality people who fall in love with objects is a real thing.
Bayard Rustin was an important figure in the American Civil Rights Movement. Learn more about Bayard Rustin in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Scientists from India and the UK are collaborating on the largest study of Indias monsoon season and the results could improve the lives of over one billion people.
From Microsofts epic Tay chatbot debacle to Googles romancenovelraised A.I. we look at some of the recent successes and failures in getting machines to talk.
Jealousy in relationships can be healthy and natural or possessive and even abusive. Learn more about jealousy in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Theres always a little shampoo left in the bottle and now scientists have a way to make sure you get to soap up with each and every last drop.
A year old dress was found on a sunken ship and its in remarkably good condition. In Delaware the demolition of the former home of a notorious pedophile is blocked by the historic preservation commission.
An Israeli researcher atAriel University in Samariahas discovered a revolutionarynew method to stop the uncontrolled bleeding common invictims of stabbings a medicalinnovationwhich could save countless lives in Israel and worldwide.
Over the past several months Israel has been engulfed by a wave of Arab terrorism the majority of which have involved stabbings as well as shootings and car ramming attacks.
More than people have been murdered in the attacks and hundreds have been wounded. Many of the victims which have included the elderly children and mothers bled to death after suffering multiple stab wounds and the accompanying rapid blood loss.
Along with ceaseless incitementPalestinian terror groups such as Hamas and Fatah have circulated detailed instructions on how to most effectively stab or slash a victim to cause maximum damage and as a result the injuries inflicted to Jewish victims are often extensive and extremely dangerous.
Until now the only blood stopping solutions for the type of deep wounds caused by such violent stabbingsare either too weak to effectively deal with themor so strong that they cause deadly blood clots. Even the most able medical first responders often do not have the most effective solutions to save lives when every second counts.But Israeli scientist Moshe Rogosnitzky has discovered that gallium a biometal currently used to stop bone loss in cancer patients can in liquid form known as gallium nitraterapidly halt bleeding from deep wounds without causing blood clots.The use of gallium for stopping bleeding from deep cuts provides additional benefits as well. Extensive research has shown that gallium is a very powerful antiinfective and speeds the healing of injuries caused by deep gashes which are often produced by the knives and other type of weapons used by terrorists.Gallium works by inducing flocculation of the clotting protein in blood known as fibrinogen. This results in external clot formation. In stark contrast to other treatments for bleeding wounds gallium does not induce clotting mechanisms in the blood. This avoids the highest risk of existing technologies that run the risk of causing deadly internal blood clots.According to Rogosnitzky Gallium has the potential to dramatically increase the chances of survival by victims of terror or accidents.However it is vital to get this discovery from the lab to the clinic as quickly as possible. The sooner it gets to the market the sooner it can be used effectively to save lives.
At this stage gallium has to undergo studies to determine the optimal dose and delivery method prior to filing for marketing authorization by the health authorities.In addition a comparative efficacy trial with other technologies for stopping bleeding needs to occur.
In order to speed up the process for clinical development and availability of galliumStop the Bleeding an online fundraising campaign has been initiated through We Fund the Cure a USbased nonprofit.
Researchers say they urgently need the funding to move forward to the next stage.
Unfortunately there seems to be no immediate end in sight to the kind of violent attacks facing Israelis said Rogosnitzky. Gallium can provide instantaneous help to victims in Israel.
Our goal is to place gallium in every first aid kit and every ambulance ensuring that every stabbing victim has an increased chance of survival. In order to move forward quickly we need resources for clinical testing.
Moreoveras blood loss remains the leading cause of death from stabbings and other external injuries it is our hope that this innovation can help innocent victims of violent crime or accidents throughout the world by significantly reducing mortality rate and providing an effective and safe answer for blood loss from wounds.
Dont panic as you ask what happened to Discovery Health or Discovery Fit Health when searching your lineup. The network remains in the same channel number position its just going through a rebranding something the net has done a few times now since its inception in going from Discovery Health to Discovery Fit Health to its newest moniker Discovery Life Channel. Hyped as a network that offers an unfiltered look at real people in extraordinary situations Discovery Life Channel will continue to offer its popular medical phenomenatype programming but expand into programming that focuses on relationships emphasizing people as they face hardships take risks and ultimately persevere. Who doesnt like a feel good story right The network officially changes names to Discovery Life Channel today Thursday Jan. .
Ways to Kill Your Mother airs Thursdays at pmET beginning tonight This docuadventuretravel series follows the endearing relationship between daredevil Baz Ashmawy and his brave yearold Irish mother who go on extreme adventures together. Read our interview with Baz to see who really is more balsy.
Body Bizarre premieres Saturday Jan. at pmET with the episode The Incredible Upside Down Man which features a bizarre birth defect that caused a Brazilian mans vertebra to twist so severely that his head is now upside down. The first episode also profiles a girls face tumor triplets who undergo surgery and a man with misshapen tumors and giantsized limbs. As you would decipher from the premiere the series profiles individuals living with the most mysterious and incredible medical anomalies and focuses on the transformative aspects of those inflicted as they undergo treatment. Each hourlong episode uncovers several cases spanning the globe of real but astonishing medical abnormalities that continue to stump doctors and experts drawing viewers into a still unknown realm in medical science.
The Mistress premieres Wednesday Jan. at pmET In each halfhour episode Sarah J. Symonds author and selfproclaimed former mistress of Chef Gordon Ramsay and Lord Jeffrey Archer dishes out tough love to mistresses ready to finally escape the trap of extramarital affairs. Symonds draws from her own personal experiences to prove that theres rarely a silver lining when youre the other woman.
Worlds Worst Mom premieres Thursday Jan. at pmET Finally someone who makes me feel better about my parenting skills this series follows Lenore Skenazy a mother of two author and seasoned parenting expert who in suffered intense public criticism after she allowed her yearold son to ride the NYC subway on his own. Following that media maelstrom Skenazy went on to get overprotective parents to tone it down some or unloosen the bubble wraps so kids can enjoy a normal childhood. In each episode Skenazy serves as aSupper Nanny type as she performs interventions with families whose kids are being held back by helicopter parents. Each family are subjected to her candor as well as a series of challenges designed to push their boundaries give their children more freedom and help unravel their fears by debunking myths around perceived societal dangers.
Discovery Life Channel officially replaces Discovery Fit Health today Jan. .
My FAVORITE channel has now been DESTROYED All my favorite medical shows have been replaced with hours of Hoarding Buried Alive teen pregnancies birthing shows and a HOURS of infomercials GAKK I havent seen Dr. G since Plus Mystery Diagnosis Monsters Inside Me and more are all gone or sparsely aired. Im now looking for replacement channels shows since DLIF is rebranding AGAIN. Why oh why have you forsaken me
What happened to Dr. G. I am so disapointed in this channel. The things you have on now I dont even care to watch.
looked so forward to that part and with our unfit society we could all use it. All that was left was halfhour programs with Giladand now those are gone too.
So far a huge disappointment. With the state of the health of most Americans a channel devoted to health and science based fitness is needed.. Not more reality programs.
To stay up to date on the latest news and developments regarding Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals Case Medical Center refer to our press release section. This section contains the most recent news releases about University Hospitals and the progress being made by the Harrington Discovery Institute.
OptiKira a startup biotechnology company has been awarded two Small Business Technology Transfer STTR grants one from the National Eye Institute NEI and one from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases NIDDK.
BioMotiv LLC the therapeutic accelerator company associated with The Harrington Project for Discovery Development centered at University Hospitals in Cleveland Ohio announced today that it has entered into a strategic partnership with Biogen. This discovery collaboration will leverage the strengths of both organizations to identify pioneering neuroscience discoveries and advance them into medicines.
Search for new inflammatory disease and cancer drug targets aided by detailed structure.
The Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals in Cleveland Ohio part of The Harrington Project for Discovery Development has announced Harrington Scholars selected in collaboration with RD partners University of Oxford Alzheimers Drug Discovery Foundation ADDF and Foundation Fighting Blindness. 
Harrington Scientific Director Mukesh Jain delivers American Society for Clinical Investigation Presidential Address.
Harrington Prize awardee Dr. Douglas Lowy interviewed by ideastreams Kay Colby to talk about the HPV vaccine as well as other issues related to cancer research including funding challenges and disparities affecting racial and ethnic groups.
Case Western Reservefound a new benefit of Kruppellike Factor KLF keeping the body in metabolic balance Its important to understand how nutrients are acquired how they are made available to tissues how they are used and how disease alters the dynamics of the process said Mukesh K. Jain MD Ellery Sedgwick Jr. Chair Distinguished Scientist and director of the Case Cardiovascular Research Institute Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine. The heart for example is a very energydemanding organ that succumbs to failure if it has insufficient access to nutrients or fails to properly utilize nutrients. The beautiful aspect of this work is that nature designed this very clever molecule to regulate both nutrient availability and use and the molecule functions broadly across all nutrient classes which is very exciting. Thats what makes it an important discovery said Jain also the scientific director of the Harrington Discovery Institute chief research officer of the Harrington Heart Vascular Institute and chief scientific officer of University Hospitals Health System.
BioMotiv LLC BioMotiv a drug development accelerator associated with The Harrington Project for Discovery Developmentcentered at University Hospitals in Cleveland Ohioannounces the formation ofSujana Biotech LLC Sujana Biotech a company developing novel technologies and therapeutic products for a range of inflammatory and vascular disorders.
A physicianscientist at Oxford University in England is developing a firstofitskind therapy for Crohns disease with support from University Hospitals miles and an ocean away. This international collaboration reflects just one of many happenings in the breakout year of for the Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals in Cleveland Ohio part of The Harrington Project for Discovery and Development.
The Harrington Discovery Institute HDI at University Hospitals UH in Cleveland Ohio part of The Harrington Project for Discovery Development has opened its annual award competition to fund and support physicianscientist innovators at major academic medical centers across the nation in their efforts to advance promising drug discoveries.
Orca Pharmaceuticals a BioMotiv portfolio company and AstraZeneca announced a partnership to develop inhibitors against a wide range of autoimmune diseases. Orca will receive upfront and milestone payments from AstraZeneca with a potential total value of . million.
has been awarded to oncologist researcher Douglas R. Lowy MD Chief Laboratory of
BioMotiv a drug development accelerator associated with The Harrington Project the University of California San Francisco UCSF and University of Washington Seattle are announcing the formation of OptiKira a platform company that will develop small molecule therapeutics that prevent cell death in pathologies caused by misfolded or unfolded proteins. 
Cleveland Ohio has announced the recipients of Harrington ScholarInnovator Awards. Theawards will support drug discovery efforts of great promise at renowned institutions across the
Hospitals UH in Cleveland and University of Oxford Oxford in the United Kingdomannounced today a newly formed affiliation that will leverage the academic medical centers
Hudson are joining forces to pledge million for finding treatments and cures for people affected
GundHarrington Initiative will create the National Center of Excellence in Fighting Blindness as part of the Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals Cleveland
Japans biggest pharmaceutical company plans to invest million in BioMotiv a Shaker Heights company that aims to commercialize all sorts of new drugs. The fiveyear investment gives Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. the right to make the first offer on any therapies BioMotiv develops related to heart disease diabetes and other socalled cardiometabolic conditions as well as any disease involving inflammation and the immune systemBioMotiv is the forprofit arm of the Harrington Project for Discovery and Development. Launched by University Hospitals in the project includes a nonprofit branch that gives grants to scientists in the early stages of developing new drugsTakeda has done business in Northeast Ohio before. In the company made an investment in Juventas Therapeutics a Cleveland drug developer. That companys drug which is designed to trick the body into sending more stem cells to the site of an injury than it otherwise would thereby speeding up the healing process showed therapeutic potential during a recent Phase II clinical trial
A yearold University Hospitals project is lowering the imposing barrier of entry for pharmaceutical startup companies. 
BioCentury Takes Note of Dual Therapeutics BioCentury the biotechfocused business journal recently featured Dual Therapeutics in its Emerging Company Profile section. The article focuses on Duals lead compound a PPA activator which has shown potent in vivo activity across different stages of prostate cancers and could provide a dramatic benefit in cases where antiandrogen drugs do not work.
ADDF Harrington Scholars selected to receive funding and project management to support recent discoveries that may lead to new therapeutics for the treatment of Alzheimers disease
Today the Ohio Third Frontier Commission made the first awards from the new Technology Commercialization Center Program. The two projects that received funding will take breakthrough technologies and turn them into treatments and medicines that will change lives.
Dual Therapeutics an oncology startup based on technology from a Harrington Scholar and licensed from the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine announced today an investment from the Partnership Fund for New York City. The companys lead candidate a small molecule PPA activator has demonstrated in vivo efficacy in models of prostate cancer lung cancer and acute lymphocytic leukemia. The Partnership funding and BioMotivs continuing investment will enable Dual Therapeutics to achieve an IND filing in early . 
National and international nominations are being sought for the second annual Harrington Prize for Innovation in Medicine which honors a medical researcher for notable achievements in innovation creativity and potential for clinical application.
The Harrington Discovery Institute HDI at University Hospitals UH Case Medical Center has opened its third annual grant competition to fund and support physicianscientists at major academic medical centers across the nation in their efforts to accelerate promising drug discoveries.
BioAtla a global biotechnology company focused on the development of conditionally active biologics CABs and BioMotiv the therapeutics accelerator for The Harrington Project for Discovery Development today announced that BioAtla licensed exclusive worldwide rights to BioMotiv to develop and commercialize its TH pathwaydirected antibody compound for the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases IBD and oncologic indications. In conjunction with the agreement BioMotiv established Kodosil Bio which will develop all compounds resulting from the license. 
Antibodies that prevent the development of Alzheimers disease.Individualized drugs for prostate cancer..An agent that blocks chronic pain.. 
The inaugural Harrington Prize for Innovation in Medicine has been awarded to pediatric cardiologist and genetics researcher Harry Dietz MD of The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
BioMotiv and Harrington Project Model Featured in Nature Article BioMotiv and The Harrington Project are cited as an example of a new model for the funding of promising technologies in a Nature Biotechnology article.
Cleveland Ohio The Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals UH Case Medical Center has announced the recipients of Harrington ScholarInnovator Awards. The awards will support drug discovery efforts of great promise at renowned institutions across the nation.
Cleveland Ohio The Alzheimers Drug Discovery Foundation ADDF and Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals UH Case Medical Center announced today a newly formed partnership that will leverage their combined expertise and resources to advance highly promising Alzheimers disease drug discovery projects conducted in academic medical institutions nationwide.
A million drug discovery initiative launched last year at University Hospitals of Cleveland has produced its second startup this one based on cancer research from the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. Dual Therapeutics will develop new treatments for prostate cancer lung cancer and acute lymphoblastic leukemia according to an announcement today from BioMotiv.
The gap between basic discovery and clinical introduction is often called the Valley of Death because it is the burial ground for a huge number of innovative ideas. Figuring out how to bridge this gap is therefore essential to developing new treatments and cures. Recently my colleagues and I visited University Hospitals in Cleveland where we learned about the Harrington Project for Discovery Development. This initiative supports breakthrough science by providing both financial resources and expert guidance to promote entrepreneurship in medicine 
Mukesh Jain MD Scientific Director of Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals Case Medical Center Chief Research Officer of University Hospitals Harrington Heart Vascular Institute and Director of Case Cardiovascular Research Institute at Case Western Reserve University shares his insight on generating quality ideas that lead to NIH funding offers perspective on effectively mentoring young investigators and discusses the future goals of the Harrington Discovery Institute. 
A local company trying to bring all sorts of new drugs to market has formed a partnership with a nonprofit that aims to find new uses for existing medicines Our goal is to develop new medicines for patients as quickly as possible said Baiju R. Shah CEO of BioMotiv BioMotiv serves as the forprofit arm of the Harrington Project for Discovery Development. The initiative includes the nonprofit University Hospitals Harrington Discovery Institute which awards grants to support the development of new drugs. 
A local company that aims to help commercialize all sorts of pharmaceuticals has spun off its first startup. BioMotiv LLC of Shaker Heights and New York University have formed Orca Pharmaceuticals an Oxford England company that aims to commercialize an oral drug designed to treat psoriasis and other autoimmune diseases. The technology was developed by investors from the university in collaboration with founders in England. BioMotiv aims to license the rights to dozens of pharmaceutical technologies from research institutions all over the world developing and testing them to the point where other investors are willing to buy the rights. The company has raised a total of million from investors since it was founded in mid. BioMotiv serves as the forprofit arm of the Harrington Project for Discovery Development. The initiative includes the nonprofit University Hospitals Harrington Discovery Institute which awards grants to support the development of new drugs. 
BioMotiv and Torrey Pines Investment a San Diego based specialty lifescience investor have signed a multimillion dollar joint investment framework to fund early stage lifescience programs and companies over the next seven years.
BioMotiv a drug development accelerator based in Cleveland Ohio today announced that it has increased its total capital from investors to million adding Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and several individual investors to its founding investors University Hospitals of Cleveland and the Harrington Family. Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company also will appoint a representative to serve on the Board of Managers of BioMotiv. 
To advance medicine and society by enabling inventive physicianscientists to turn their discoveries into medicines that improve human health.
The show follows Steve DeAngelo the owner of Oaklands Harborside Health Center which serves clients. According to the network DeAngelo strives to provide patients with the highestquality product and uses his business to promote the national regulation and taxation of cannabis.
Weed Wars fearlessly pulls back the curtain on a once illegal and still controversial world said Nancy Daniels executive vp at Discovery Channel. From the inner workings of the business to Steves distinctive leadership style Weed Wars is a fascinating glimpse into this highly unique setting. Like Gold Rush or Deadliest Catch these are guys pursuing their own version of the American Dream.
California passed the Compassionate Use Act in that permitted legalized pot dispensaries where customers can select from a variety of tokeable or edible products if they have a doctors approval. Some have accused the Act of essentially legalizing marijuana. But in addition toproviding relief to some patients struggling with severe illnesses the passage has also resulted in a new breed of localowned brickandmortar outlets at a time when retail stores are shutting down as commerce increasingly shifts to big box stores and Internet.
The show will follow the journey of the plant from germination to harvesting to sales at Harborside which has opened up a second location in San Jose despite constant police monitoring and security sweeps says to the network.
What do you think will you check out Weed Wars this fall Its sort of like Cake Boss with pot or not.
The owner of this website www.healthcanal.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beefdbua.
The owner of this website www.immortal.org has banned your access based on your browsers signature beeaddfua.
Please note as toursinclude visiting a working laboratory environment closed shoes must be worn for occupational health and safety reasons.The minimum age for Discovery Tour attendees is years old.
Our researchers have discovered how Plasmodium falciparum parasites become resistant to certain antimalarial drugs. This has enabled monitoring of the spread of drugresistant malariaand development of new antimalarial treatments.
Our researchers identifedbreast stem cells and demonstratedthat a single breast cell can generate a fully functional breast. This has already led to discovery of the cell of origin of BRCArelated hereditary breast cancers and explained the link between female hormones and increased risk of breast cancer. We are now trialling a new preventive drug to switchoff cancer causing cells.
The discovery of hormones regulating white blood cell production by Professor Donald Metcalfand his colleagues at the institute has led to new treatments that have benefited over million cancer patients and revolutionised stem cell transplantation.
Nobel laureate Sir Francis Macfarlane Burnet developed the procedure still used today to produce influenza virus in sufficient quantities for flu vaccine.
Want to hear about our latest discoveriesSubscribe to our supporter newsletter Illuminate.
We acknowledge the Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation as the traditional owners of the land where our campuses are located and recognise their continuing connection to country and community.
The inspirational video below will tell youthestory of a girl who could have given up but.
What you eat is extremely important for building your immune system. All our dietary flaws like.
Dr. Mark Hyman is one of the leaders in teaching people how to apply natural therapy.
In todays modern age it can be easy to forget some of the more common medicinal.
Not all foods are equally beneficial for our health. Some of them of them are destructive.
The inspirational video below will tell youthestory of a girl who could have given up but didnt indulge weakness and continued to fight. The girl was diagnosed with bone.
What you eat is extremely important for building your immune system. All our dietary flaws like a lack of fruits and vegetables are going to come back to us.
Dr. Mark Hyman is one of the leaders in teaching people how to apply natural therapy to detox our bodies and improve health. His personal experience ofproblems with his.
In todays modern age it can be easy to forget some of the more common medicinal methods of the Native Americans. In fact the knowledge of the ancient cultures.
Not all foods are equally beneficial for our health. Some of them of them are destructive some are favorable and others are soso. But there are also foods that.
Salt has many uses from seasoning your food to maintaining your house. We all know that salt can be great for adding flavor but it can also impact your.
We are surrounded by artificial light sources in our daily life whether it is the light in our office or from our phone screen. Artificial light can impact your.
Do you like getting comfortable in front of the TV after a day of work or on the weekends Maybe even with some notsohealthy snacks at hand And would.
Theres a lot to be gained by being a yes person. You cannot make changes in your life without saying yes to opportunities that present themselves. Never before in.
The show follows Steve DeAngelo the owner of Oaklands Harborside Health Center which serves clients. According to the network DeAngelo strives to provide patients with the highestquality product and uses his business to promote the national regulation and taxation of cannabis.
Weed Wars fearlessly pulls back the curtain on a once illegal and still controversial world said Nancy Daniels executive vp at Discovery Channel. From the inner workings of the business to Steves distinctive leadership style Weed Wars is a fascinating glimpse into this highly unique setting. Like Gold Rush or Deadliest Catch these are guys pursuing their own version of the American Dream.
California passed the Compassionate Use Act in that permitted legalized pot dispensaries where customers can select from a variety of tokeable or edible products if they have a doctors approval. Some have accused the Act of essentially legalizing marijuana. But in addition toproviding relief to some patients struggling with severe illnesses the passage has also resulted in a new breed of localowned brickandmortar outlets at a time when retail stores are shutting down as commerce increasingly shifts to big box stores and Internet.
The show will follow the journey of the plant from germination to harvesting to sales at Harborside which has opened up a second location in San Jose despite constant police monitoring and security sweeps says to the network.
What do you think will you check out Weed Wars this fall Its sort of like Cake Boss with pot or not.
Dr. Markus Seeliger and MDPhD student Zach Foda determined the D structure of an inhibitor compound and how it is bound to the Insulin Degrading Enzyme IDE. The inhibitor is depicted in orange and white spheres. The IDE is depicted as the blue and green surface and the gray ribbons.
STONY BROOK N.Y. June The discovery of an inhibitor of the Insulin Degrading Enzyme IDE a protein responsible for the susceptibility of diabetes because it destroys insulin in the body may lead to new treatment approaches for diabetes. In collaboration with the discoverers of the inhibitor David Liu and Alan Saghatelian Stony Brook Medicine scientist Markus Seeliger PhD and colleagues nationally demonstrated the efficacy of the compound in a research paper in the early online edition of 
More than million people live with type II diabetes in the United States a disease in which the body cannot make sufficient amounts of the hormone insulin. IDE removes insulin from the blood. To date diabetes treatment strategies are based on patients either injecting insulin taking medicine to make their body more sensitive to insulin or taking other drugs to stimulate insulin secretion. In the paper Antidiabetic action of insulindegrading enzyme inhibitors mediated by multiple hormones the authors reveal results that point to a potential new approach regulating the degradation of insulin in the blood.
A strategy to protect the remaining amounts of insulin produced by diabetics in response to blood sugar levels is an attractive treatment alternative particularly in the early stages of type II diabetes said Dr. Seeliger Assistant Professor in the Department of Pharmacological Sciences at Stony Brook University School of Medicine. The research results gives proof of concept that targeting this protein is extremely promising. The inhibitor we discovered successfully relieved the symptoms of type II diabetes in obese mice and not only elevated their insulin levels but promoted healthy insulin signaling within the blood.
Using a robotic structural biology facility at Stony Brook and resources at Brookhaven National Laboratory Dr. Seeliger and Zach Foda an MDPhD candidate and student in Dr. Seeligers laboratory determined the threedimensional structure of the inhibitor compound and how it is bound to the IDE. The research team used this D structure to help further evaluate the compounds properties and characteristics.
Dr. Seeliger said that the research findings are important initial steps to developing a drug that diabetics can use to regulate the depletion of insulin in their blood. A realistic initial treatment approach he added may be to use the compound to help the body retain insulin levels and thus delay the use of insulin for type II diabetes.
Coinvestigators included scientists from Harvard University the Albert Einstein College of Medicine the University of Chicago and the University of California Irvine.
The research was supported in part by the National Institutes of Healths National Institute of General Medical Sciences which supports research that lays the foundation for advances in disease diagnosis treatment and prevention.
To stay up to date on the latest news and developments regarding Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals Case Medical Center refer to our press release section. This section contains the most recent news releases about University Hospitals and the progress being made by the Harrington Discovery Institute.
OptiKira a startup biotechnology company has been awarded two Small Business Technology Transfer STTR grants one from the National Eye Institute NEI and one from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases NIDDK.
BioMotiv LLC the therapeutic accelerator company associated with The Harrington Project for Discovery Development centered at University Hospitals in Cleveland Ohio announced today that it has entered into a strategic partnership with Biogen. This discovery collaboration will leverage the strengths of both organizations to identify pioneering neuroscience discoveries and advance them into medicines.
Search for new inflammatory disease and cancer drug targets aided by detailed structure.
The Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals in Cleveland Ohio part of The Harrington Project for Discovery Development has announced Harrington Scholars selected in collaboration with RD partners University of Oxford Alzheimers Drug Discovery Foundation ADDF and Foundation Fighting Blindness. 
Harrington Scientific Director Mukesh Jain delivers American Society for Clinical Investigation Presidential Address.
Harrington Prize awardee Dr. Douglas Lowy interviewed by ideastreams Kay Colby to talk about the HPV vaccine as well as other issues related to cancer research including funding challenges and disparities affecting racial and ethnic groups.
Case Western Reservefound a new benefit of Kruppellike Factor KLF keeping the body in metabolic balance Its important to understand how nutrients are acquired how they are made available to tissues how they are used and how disease alters the dynamics of the process said Mukesh K. Jain MD Ellery Sedgwick Jr. Chair Distinguished Scientist and director of the Case Cardiovascular Research Institute Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine. The heart for example is a very energydemanding organ that succumbs to failure if it has insufficient access to nutrients or fails to properly utilize nutrients. The beautiful aspect of this work is that nature designed this very clever molecule to regulate both nutrient availability and use and the molecule functions broadly across all nutrient classes which is very exciting. Thats what makes it an important discovery said Jain also the scientific director of the Harrington Discovery Institute chief research officer of the Harrington Heart Vascular Institute and chief scientific officer of University Hospitals Health System.
BioMotiv LLC BioMotiv a drug development accelerator associated with The Harrington Project for Discovery Developmentcentered at University Hospitals in Cleveland Ohioannounces the formation ofSujana Biotech LLC Sujana Biotech a company developing novel technologies and therapeutic products for a range of inflammatory and vascular disorders.
A physicianscientist at Oxford University in England is developing a firstofitskind therapy for Crohns disease with support from University Hospitals miles and an ocean away. This international collaboration reflects just one of many happenings in the breakout year of for the Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals in Cleveland Ohio part of The Harrington Project for Discovery and Development.
The Harrington Discovery Institute HDI at University Hospitals UH in Cleveland Ohio part of The Harrington Project for Discovery Development has opened its annual award competition to fund and support physicianscientist innovators at major academic medical centers across the nation in their efforts to advance promising drug discoveries.
Orca Pharmaceuticals a BioMotiv portfolio company and AstraZeneca announced a partnership to develop inhibitors against a wide range of autoimmune diseases. Orca will receive upfront and milestone payments from AstraZeneca with a potential total value of . million.
has been awarded to oncologist researcher Douglas R. Lowy MD Chief Laboratory of
BioMotiv a drug development accelerator associated with The Harrington Project the University of California San Francisco UCSF and University of Washington Seattle are announcing the formation of OptiKira a platform company that will develop small molecule therapeutics that prevent cell death in pathologies caused by misfolded or unfolded proteins. 
Cleveland Ohio has announced the recipients of Harrington ScholarInnovator Awards. Theawards will support drug discovery efforts of great promise at renowned institutions across the
Hospitals UH in Cleveland and University of Oxford Oxford in the United Kingdomannounced today a newly formed affiliation that will leverage the academic medical centers
Hudson are joining forces to pledge million for finding treatments and cures for people affected
GundHarrington Initiative will create the National Center of Excellence in Fighting Blindness as part of the Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals Cleveland
Japans biggest pharmaceutical company plans to invest million in BioMotiv a Shaker Heights company that aims to commercialize all sorts of new drugs. The fiveyear investment gives Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. the right to make the first offer on any therapies BioMotiv develops related to heart disease diabetes and other socalled cardiometabolic conditions as well as any disease involving inflammation and the immune systemBioMotiv is the forprofit arm of the Harrington Project for Discovery and Development. Launched by University Hospitals in the project includes a nonprofit branch that gives grants to scientists in the early stages of developing new drugsTakeda has done business in Northeast Ohio before. In the company made an investment in Juventas Therapeutics a Cleveland drug developer. That companys drug which is designed to trick the body into sending more stem cells to the site of an injury than it otherwise would thereby speeding up the healing process showed therapeutic potential during a recent Phase II clinical trial
A yearold University Hospitals project is lowering the imposing barrier of entry for pharmaceutical startup companies. 
BioCentury Takes Note of Dual Therapeutics BioCentury the biotechfocused business journal recently featured Dual Therapeutics in its Emerging Company Profile section. The article focuses on Duals lead compound a PPA activator which has shown potent in vivo activity across different stages of prostate cancers and could provide a dramatic benefit in cases where antiandrogen drugs do not work.
ADDF Harrington Scholars selected to receive funding and project management to support recent discoveries that may lead to new therapeutics for the treatment of Alzheimers disease
Today the Ohio Third Frontier Commission made the first awards from the new Technology Commercialization Center Program. The two projects that received funding will take breakthrough technologies and turn them into treatments and medicines that will change lives.
Dual Therapeutics an oncology startup based on technology from a Harrington Scholar and licensed from the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine announced today an investment from the Partnership Fund for New York City. The companys lead candidate a small molecule PPA activator has demonstrated in vivo efficacy in models of prostate cancer lung cancer and acute lymphocytic leukemia. The Partnership funding and BioMotivs continuing investment will enable Dual Therapeutics to achieve an IND filing in early . 
National and international nominations are being sought for the second annual Harrington Prize for Innovation in Medicine which honors a medical researcher for notable achievements in innovation creativity and potential for clinical application.
The Harrington Discovery Institute HDI at University Hospitals UH Case Medical Center has opened its third annual grant competition to fund and support physicianscientists at major academic medical centers across the nation in their efforts to accelerate promising drug discoveries.
BioAtla a global biotechnology company focused on the development of conditionally active biologics CABs and BioMotiv the therapeutics accelerator for The Harrington Project for Discovery Development today announced that BioAtla licensed exclusive worldwide rights to BioMotiv to develop and commercialize its TH pathwaydirected antibody compound for the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases IBD and oncologic indications. In conjunction with the agreement BioMotiv established Kodosil Bio which will develop all compounds resulting from the license. 
Antibodies that prevent the development of Alzheimers disease.Individualized drugs for prostate cancer..An agent that blocks chronic pain.. 
The inaugural Harrington Prize for Innovation in Medicine has been awarded to pediatric cardiologist and genetics researcher Harry Dietz MD of The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
BioMotiv and Harrington Project Model Featured in Nature Article BioMotiv and The Harrington Project are cited as an example of a new model for the funding of promising technologies in a Nature Biotechnology article.
Cleveland Ohio The Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals UH Case Medical Center has announced the recipients of Harrington ScholarInnovator Awards. The awards will support drug discovery efforts of great promise at renowned institutions across the nation.
Cleveland Ohio The Alzheimers Drug Discovery Foundation ADDF and Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals UH Case Medical Center announced today a newly formed partnership that will leverage their combined expertise and resources to advance highly promising Alzheimers disease drug discovery projects conducted in academic medical institutions nationwide.
A million drug discovery initiative launched last year at University Hospitals of Cleveland has produced its second startup this one based on cancer research from the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. Dual Therapeutics will develop new treatments for prostate cancer lung cancer and acute lymphoblastic leukemia according to an announcement today from BioMotiv.
The gap between basic discovery and clinical introduction is often called the Valley of Death because it is the burial ground for a huge number of innovative ideas. Figuring out how to bridge this gap is therefore essential to developing new treatments and cures. Recently my colleagues and I visited University Hospitals in Cleveland where we learned about the Harrington Project for Discovery Development. This initiative supports breakthrough science by providing both financial resources and expert guidance to promote entrepreneurship in medicine 
Mukesh Jain MD Scientific Director of Harrington Discovery Institute at University Hospitals Case Medical Center Chief Research Officer of University Hospitals Harrington Heart Vascular Institute and Director of Case Cardiovascular Research Institute at Case Western Reserve University shares his insight on generating quality ideas that lead to NIH funding offers perspective on effectively mentoring young investigators and discusses the future goals of the Harrington Discovery Institute. 
A local company trying to bring all sorts of new drugs to market has formed a partnership with a nonprofit that aims to find new uses for existing medicines Our goal is to develop new medicines for patients as quickly as possible said Baiju R. Shah CEO of BioMotiv BioMotiv serves as the forprofit arm of the Harrington Project for Discovery Development. The initiative includes the nonprofit University Hospitals Harrington Discovery Institute which awards grants to support the development of new drugs. 
A local company that aims to help commercialize all sorts of pharmaceuticals has spun off its first startup. BioMotiv LLC of Shaker Heights and New York University have formed Orca Pharmaceuticals an Oxford England company that aims to commercialize an oral drug designed to treat psoriasis and other autoimmune diseases. The technology was developed by investors from the university in collaboration with founders in England. BioMotiv aims to license the rights to dozens of pharmaceutical technologies from research institutions all over the world developing and testing them to the point where other investors are willing to buy the rights. The company has raised a total of million from investors since it was founded in mid. BioMotiv serves as the forprofit arm of the Harrington Project for Discovery Development. The initiative includes the nonprofit University Hospitals Harrington Discovery Institute which awards grants to support the development of new drugs. 
BioMotiv and Torrey Pines Investment a San Diego based specialty lifescience investor have signed a multimillion dollar joint investment framework to fund early stage lifescience programs and companies over the next seven years.
BioMotiv a drug development accelerator based in Cleveland Ohio today announced that it has increased its total capital from investors to million adding Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and several individual investors to its founding investors University Hospitals of Cleveland and the Harrington Family. Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company also will appoint a representative to serve on the Board of Managers of BioMotiv. 
To advance medicine and society by enabling inventive physicianscientists to turn their discoveries into medicines that improve human health.
There are plenty of programs and channels for stimulating your brain and really working that mental muscle but when it comes to the rest of the body the choices can seem a little limited. Fitness programs are often scattered and featured on networks where they arent the primary focus. Shows just concerning healthy living and lifestyles are equally few and far between unless of course the channel happens to be Discovery Fit Health.
Before Discovery Fit Health Discovery Communications had put out another channel called simply Discovery Health Channel. Programs featured on the channel tackled all kinds of health issues from early childhood ailments to more adult concerns and even mature focuses. If there was a question about anything it was a quick and easy network for viewers to access information pertinent to their situations.
On December Discovery Health Channel was shutdown and the channel space was handed over to the Oprah Winfrey Network. In the place of the health channel was a new Discovery network called FitTV which focused on programs geared toward more active and healthy lifestyles. The idea was that promoting these lifestyles helped prevent later health issues in life.
Sometimes issues concerning our health can be a little scary or even ugly. However these are issues that are major concerns for some people and the programming featured Discovery Fit Health strives to strike an even balance between being entertaining and informative.
The struggle to stay healthy and find helpful information can be difficult which is why its comforting to know Discovery hast that covered.
In life there are choices one can make that are either healthy or for leisure. Discovery Fit Health strikes a balance between the two allowing viewers to have their cake a healthy amount and eat it too.
The owner of this website www.healthcanal.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beddaefffua.
Americans get more than half of their daily calories from seven farm foods that are subsidized by the U.S. government but a new study suggests those subsidies may be contributing to the obesity epidemic.
New research finds that people struggling with bingeeating disorderAmericas most common yet likely leastknown eating disordermay have at least three treatment options to help them curtail their eating.
From the realities of postbaby cellulite to the ridiculous pressure to have a thigh gap.
Brie Larsons funny Instagram post about this alltoofamiliar problem inspired us to find a solution once and for all.
Today I ran a . minute mile. Which is slow as hell but Ive been trying to do it for years
In the ongoing crisis around Zikalinked birth defects attention has been largely focused on infants born with toosmall heads or microcephaly.
Babies who learn to stand up relatively early may also do a bit better with attention memory and learning by the time they are preschoolers a new study suggests.
Many teens are turning to risky unregulated supplements to boost their looks warns a leading group of U.S. pediatricians.
Children with intrusive parents who push too hard for good grades may be more prone to become highly selfcritical or anxious and depressed a new study suggests.
At least pregnant women in the Dallas area have been infected with Zika Texas officials confirmed Wednesday.
Foods rich in fiber not only keep you regular they may help you live longer without disease new research suggests.
A healthy lifestyle that includes regular exercise and eating nutritiously can lower your risk of developing cancer by as much as percent a new evidence review concludes.
Americans may have to do without the easier nasal spray form of flu vaccine next flu season a panel of experts decided Wednesday.
A shortlived optical sensation can lead some smartphone users to mistakenly believe theyve lost sight in one eye British doctors report. 
Get the latest health fitness antiaging and nutrition news plus special offers insights and more from Health.com
The material in this site is intended to be of general informational use and is not intended to constitute medical advice probable diagnosis or recommended treatments. See the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights for more information. Ad Choices
The phenomenon of cancer returning even after successful treatment is more common than most people realise.
Almost a quarter of women with HERpositive breast cancer will experience a recurrence of their disease following surgery and chemotherapy. For lung cancer patients over percent will become victims again.
These stragglers go into stealth mode and often return later somewhere else in the body. In the medical professional this is referred to as latent or dormant metastasis.
Published in the journal Cell Srinivas Malladi a postdoctoral fellow in Dr. Massagus lab spent six years developing a model to track metastasis.
He began by obtaining sample of tumour cells from patients with earlystage breast and lung cancers. These were then injected into mice.
Nearly all of the transplanted cells died however a few survived in the lungs and kidneys. He called these persistent survivors latency competent cancer LCC cells. 
Dr. Malladi studied these LLC cells and found that they had similar behavioural characteristics to stem cells which divide periodically to repair our tissues. This LCC cells ability to divide and seed distant organs. 
He also found that a part of these cells produce a protein called a WNT inhibitor which blocks cell division leaving them in a state of suspended animation.
This delayed growth is the main reason some LLC cells are able to survive in the body for many years without detection.
By not dividing these cells avoid producing the molecules that bodys natural killer cells can detect.
Furthermore most chemotherapies only target dividing cells which means that nondividing LCCs are spared.
Dr. Massagu and his team hope this new discovery will lead to improved treatment options that will target all cancerous cells.
They plan on investigating options with immunologists to develop new treatments that could force the LCC cells to produce molecules which can be detected by the bodys natural killer cells.
The inspirational video below will tell youthestory of a girl who could have given up but.
What you eat is extremely important for building your immune system. All our dietary flaws like.
Dr. Mark Hyman is one of the leaders in teaching people how to apply natural therapy.
In todays modern age it can be easy to forget some of the more common medicinal.
Not all foods are equally beneficial for our health. Some of them of them are destructive.
The inspirational video below will tell youthestory of a girl who could have given up but didnt indulge weakness and continued to fight. The girl was diagnosed with bone.
What you eat is extremely important for building your immune system. All our dietary flaws like a lack of fruits and vegetables are going to come back to us.
Dr. Mark Hyman is one of the leaders in teaching people how to apply natural therapy to detox our bodies and improve health. His personal experience ofproblems with his.
In todays modern age it can be easy to forget some of the more common medicinal methods of the Native Americans. In fact the knowledge of the ancient cultures.
Not all foods are equally beneficial for our health. Some of them of them are destructive some are favorable and others are soso. But there are also foods that.
Salt has many uses from seasoning your food to maintaining your house. We all know that salt can be great for adding flavor but it can also impact your.
We are surrounded by artificial light sources in our daily life whether it is the light in our office or from our phone screen. Artificial light can impact your.
Do you like getting comfortable in front of the TV after a day of work or on the weekends Maybe even with some notsohealthy snacks at hand And would.
Theres a lot to be gained by being a yes person. You cannot make changes in your life without saying yes to opportunities that present themselves. Never before in.
Discovery Health brings you the remarkable story of the first pregnant man. How is this possible Is it a hoax Take a look at Discovery Healths Pregnant Man series to learn what happens next.
How does a man get pregnant Watch Thomas and Nancy as they relive the moment of conception and talk about what made it all possible. Take a look at Discovery Healths Pregnant Man series to learn what happens next.
Discovery Health brings you the remarkable story of the first pregnant man. How is this possible Is it a hoax Take a look at Discovery Healths Pregnant Man series to learn what happens next.
Watch this video about the affect of a mothers touch on HowStuffWorks. Are mothering tendencies passed on through genes or through how your mother treated you Learn about the affect of a mothers touch in this video from ScienCentral.
With kids and a set of twins on the way samesex couple Janice and Karen prepare for life with kids under age five.
This Discovery Channel video teaches parents how to take care of an infants skin.
When Thomas Beattie decided to get pregnant he published an article with a picture of himself. News organizations began calling it a hoax. Take a look at Discovery Healths Pregnant Man series to learn what happens next.
Watch this video about babies and rhythm on HowStuffWorks. Infants have a culturespecific way of responding to musical rhythms. Learn how babies respond to music in this video from ScienCentral.
Learn some tips for giving newborns a bath in this Pediatric Tips series from Discovery Health.
The Duggars take their newest child to a doctor for her first checkup. Learn more about newborns in this video from Discovery.
Katy takes her daughter Lola to the doctor for her threeweek checkup and to learn some of the affects that crystal meth may have had on her development.
The Duggar kids spread the Christmas cheer by baking cookies for neighbors and themselves
Phameca is weeks pregnant and suffering from pregnancy induced PICA that causes her to crave toxic fumes.
As Phamecas craving for correction fluid persists her family must now deal with Phamecas unwillingness to stop sniffing weeks before her delivery.
Katy is weeks away from delivering her daughter and must deal with the pressures associated with her crystal meth addiction. Will she be able to stop
Katy takes her daughter Lola to the doctor for her threeweek checkup and to learn some of the affects that crystal meth may have had on her development.
Video Entry While Heather and Ze had no trouble conceiving their first two children the couple is realizing getting pregnant a third time is not as easy. Find out how Heather is charting her ovulation and what shes learning in the process.
With kids and a set of twins on the way samesex couple Janice and Karen prepare for life with kids under age five.
The Duggar kids get acquainted with their new house in Little Rock by completing a scavenger hunt.
The Duggar kids spread the Christmas cheer by baking cookies for neighbors and themselves
Watch the footage that didnt make it into the show The Duggar kids have a new addition to the family.
In midNovember I drove over to Half Moon Bay California pumpkin capitol of the world and was saddened to see so many pumpkins languishing in the fields postHalloween. The majority of American consumers seem to think that this thickfleshed squash is good only as an October porch decoration carved and candled to light the way for trickortreaters but it is so much more than that. And their loss is my gain as I was able to pick up pumpkins for a mere apiece at my favorite farm stand.
Its not often you see an advertisement for Shredded Wheat All Bran or lowsugar organic cereals. What you do see in a very repetitive and aggressive way are ads for highsugar lowfiber content cereals. You know Trix Trix are for kids Lucky Charms theyre magically delicious Corn Pops and Capn Crunch one of my childhood favorites. 
In midNovember I drove over to Half Moon Bay California pumpkin capitol of the world and was saddened to see so many pumpkins languishing in the fields postHalloween. The majority of American consumers seem to think that this thickfleshed squash is good only as an October porch decoration carved and candled to light the way for trickortreaters but it is so much more than that. And their loss is my gain as I was able to pick up pumpkins for a mere apiece at my favorite farm stand.
Its not often you see an advertisement for Shredded Wheat All Bran or lowsugar organic cereals. What you do see in a very repetitive and aggressive way are ads for highsugar lowfiber content cereals. You know Trix Trix are for kids Lucky Charms theyre magically delicious Corn Pops and Capn Crunch one of my childhood favorites. 
In midNovember I drove over to Half Moon Bay California pumpkin capitol of the world and was saddened to see so many pumpkins languishing in the fields postHalloween. The majority of American consumers seem to think that this thickfleshed squash is good only as an October porch decoration carved and candled to light the way for trickortreaters but it is so much more than that. And their loss is my gain as I was able to pick up pumpkins for a mere apiece at my favorite farm stand.
Its not often you see an advertisement for Shredded Wheat All Bran or lowsugar organic cereals. What you do see in a very repetitive and aggressive way are ads for highsugar lowfiber content cereals. You know Trix Trix are for kids Lucky Charms theyre magically delicious Corn Pops and Capn Crunch one of my childhood favorites. 
In midNovember I drove over to Half Moon Bay California pumpkin capitol of the world and was saddened to see so many pumpkins languishing in the fields postHalloween. The majority of American consumers seem to think that this thickfleshed squash is good only as an October porch decoration carved and candled to light the way for trickortreaters but it is so much more than that. And their loss is my gain as I was able to pick up pumpkins for a mere apiece at my favorite farm stand.
Its not often you see an advertisement for Shredded Wheat All Bran or lowsugar organic cereals. What you do see in a very repetitive and aggressive way are ads for highsugar lowfiber content cereals. You know Trix Trix are for kids Lucky Charms theyre magically delicious Corn Pops and Capn Crunch one of my childhood favorites. 
The content provided in this site is strictly for you to be able to find helpful information on improving your life and health. None of the information here is to be construed as medical advice. Only your own doctor who has examined you can give you medical advice. None of the authors of any content in this website even if the author is a licensed physician are providing you with medical advice through this website. Please review any news or information you see on this website with your own physician in order to obtain actual medical advice. 
HealthNews Inc. All Rights Reserved ENUS Search powered by Intuitive Web Marketing
I remember a Seattle Weekly article circa around the time that I was hired as Executive Directorthat described Discovery Institute as a think tank where people sit around a big table and think really hard. Needless to say the article was neither friendly nor indicative of the role that think tanks really play in policy development. It missed a bigger point too. Discovery Institute is more than a think tank. Read more
Please note as toursinclude visiting a working laboratory environment closed shoes must be worn for occupational health and safety reasons.The minimum age for Discovery Tour attendees is years old.
Our researchers have discovered how Plasmodium falciparum parasites become resistant to certain antimalarial drugs. This has enabled monitoring of the spread of drugresistant malariaand development of new antimalarial treatments.
Our researchers identifedbreast stem cells and demonstratedthat a single breast cell can generate a fully functional breast. This has already led to discovery of the cell of origin of BRCArelated hereditary breast cancers and explained the link between female hormones and increased risk of breast cancer. We are now trialling a new preventive drug to switchoff cancer causing cells.
The discovery of hormones regulating white blood cell production by Professor Donald Metcalfand his colleagues at the institute has led to new treatments that have benefited over million cancer patients and revolutionised stem cell transplantation.
Nobel laureate Sir Francis Macfarlane Burnet developed the procedure still used today to produce influenza virus in sufficient quantities for flu vaccine.
Want to hear about our latest discoveriesSubscribe to our supporter newsletter Illuminate.
We acknowledge the Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation as the traditional owners of the land where our campuses are located and recognise their continuing connection to country and community.
Though large in stature most big dinosaurs that once roamed the Earth were herbivores.
Dragon Tails explores the incredible world of snapping turtles and all of the folklore .
Experience the awesome aerial acrobatics and ferocious intensity of Great White Sharks as they .
Have you ever dreamed of swimming with a Manatee Well on this weeks Behind .
Though large in stature most big dinosaurs that once roamed the Earth were herbivores.
Dragon Tails explores the incredible world of snapping turtles and all of the folklore .
Experience the awesome aerial acrobatics and ferocious intensity of Great White Sharks as they .
Have you ever dreamed of swimming with a Manatee Well on this weeks Behind .
Image Credits DCL. By visiting this site you agree to the terms and conditions of our Questions See the policy for the contact information. For questions about Discovery Kids contact 
Copyright Discovery Communications LLC. The worlds payTV programmer.
This program was produced with the support of funding from Chartered Health Plan.
The finding suggests that leafy greens are essential for feeding good gut bacteria limiting the ability of bad bacteria to colonise the gut by shutting them out of the prime real estate.
Researchers from Melbourne and the UK identified a previously unknown enzyme used by bacteria fungi and other organisms to feed on the unusual but abundant sugar sulfoquinovose SQ for short found in green vegetables.
Each year leafy green vegetables such as spinach produce the sugar on an enormous scale globally comparable to the worlds total annual iron ore production.
The research published today in the journal Nature Chemical Biology was led by DrEthan GoddardBorger from the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute Professor Spencer Williams from the Bio Institute and The University of Melbourne and Professor Gideon Davies from the University of York UK.
Dr GoddardBorger said the discovery could be exploited to cultivate the growth of good gut bacteria. Every time we eat leafy green vegetables we consume significant amounts of SQ sugars which are used as an energy source by good gut bacteria he said.
Bacteria in the gut such as crucial protective strains of E. coli use SQ as a source of energy. E. coli provides a protective barrier that prevents growth and colonisation by bad bacteria because the good bugs are taking up all the habitable real estate Dr GoddardBorger said.
E. coli is a key bacterial coloniser needed by our gut. We speculate that consumption of this specific molecule within leafy greens will prove to be an important factor in improving and maintaining healthy gut bacteria and good digestive health.
Professor Williams said the team had revealed how bacteria extract the sugar from plants in order to fuel their growth. We discovered the enzyme YihQ which is used by bacteria to absorb and metabolise these sulfurcontaining sugars as food he said.
Sulfur is critical for building proteins the essential components of all living organisms. SQ is the only sugar molecule which contains sulfur and digestion of the molecule by bacteria releases sulfur into the environment where it reenters the global sulfur cycle to be reused by other organisms.
Professor Williams said that the pathway was unusual but abundant in biological organisms.
This work answers a year mystery that has surrounded how sulfur an element essential for life on Earth was used and recycled by living organisms he said. What is remarkable is that the YihQ enzyme was hiding in plain sight and is produced by the humble bacterium E. coli present in nearly every biologists laboratory.
The discovery also provides crucial insights that may one day be exploited to develop an entirely new class of antibiotics Dr GoddardBorger said. New antimicrobial strategies are desperately needed as more and more bacteria acquire resistance to existing classes of antibiotics.
We think it will be possible to use these widespread enzymes to enable highly specific delivery of antibiotics to harmful forms of E. coli and other pathogens such as Salmonella responsible for food poisoning while leaving the good gut bacteria untouched.
The research was supported by the National Health and Medical Research Council Australian Research Council Ramaciotti Foundation veski the Victorian Government Operational Infrastructure Support Program UK Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council and the European Research Council.
Want to hear about our latest discoveriesSubscribe to our supporter newsletter Illuminate.
We acknowledge the Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation as the traditional owners of the land where our campuses are located and recognise their continuing connection to country and community.
Scientists at the University of California San Diego have developed a new genetic platform that allows efficient production of naturally occurring molecules and have used it to produce a novel antibiotic compound. Their study published this week in PNAS may open new avenues for natural product discoveries and drug development. 
According to lead investigator Bradley S. Moore PhD of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences at UC San Diego the findings demonstrate a plug and play technique to trigger previously unknown biosynthetic pathways and identify natural product drug candidates. 
In my opinion the new synthetic biology technology we developed which resulted in the discovery of a new antibiotic from a marine bacterium is just the tip of the iceberg in terms of our ability to modernize the natural product drug discovery platform Moore said. 
But it often proves difficult to grow the newly discovered ocean bacteria in the laboratory or to get them to produce their full repertoire of natural products.
The UC San Diego scientists harvested a set of genes predicted to encode a natural product from ocean bacteria then used the synthetic biology technology to identify and test a totally new antibiotic taromycin A found to be effective in fighting drugresistant MRSA. 
Antibiotic resistance is critical challenge to the public health. Most antibiotics such as penicillin used in human medicine are natural molecules originally isolated from microbes in the soil or rainforest part of the chemical warfare that microbes deploy to outcompete one another and secure their niche in the environment said coinvestigator Victor Nizet MD professor of pediatrics and pharmacy at UC San Diego. 
Such microbes have the genetic capacity to biosynthesize a wide range of specialized compounds. Although nextgeneration sequencing technologies can potentially exploit this capacity as an approach to natural drug discovery researchers currently lack procedures to efficiently link genes with specific molecules. To help bridge this gap the UC San Diego researchers developed a genetic platform based on transformationassociated recombination TAR cloning which efficiently produces natural product molecules from uncharacterized gene collections.
The researchers applied the platform to yeast targeting the taromycin gene cluster because of its high degree of similarity to the biosynthesis pathway of daptomycin a clinically approved antibiotic used to treat infections caused by multiresistant bacteria. The technique has the potential to unlock the drug discovery potential of countless new and mysterious microbes Nizet concluded. 
Additional contributors to the study include Kazuya Yamanaka Kirk A. Reynolds Roland D. Kersten Katherine S. Ryan David J. Gonzalez and Pieter C. Dorrestein. 
Image Credits DCL. By visiting this site you agree to the terms and conditions of our Questions See the policy for the contact information. For questions about Discovery Kids contact 
Copyright Discovery Communications LLC. The worlds payTV programmer.
A sea change is rippling through medical research but oldschool methods are still valuable. 
A sea change is rippling through medical research but oldschool methods are still valuable. 
New precision medicine trials should complement not replace old longterm research trials researchers say.
As powerful as new precision medicine trials may be researchers should not dismiss the importance of older and established longterm research trials says Dr. Meir Stampfer of Brigham and Womens Hospital principle investigator for the famed Nurses Health Study. 
Stampfer notes that precision medicine trials based in hospitals or health systems have limitations that broadbased longterm trials like the yearold nurses study and its groundbreaking predecessor the Framingham Heart Study do not. Perhaps the most significant is that hospitalbased trials such as Geisinger Health Systems MyCode Community Health Initiative enroll a population of volunteers that is skewed toward people who visit the hospital for treatment. 
Traditional longitudinal trials also seek out healthy volunteers a cohort the Obama administrations millionperson project hopes to recruit as well. 
Most of these hospitalbased programs collect DNA samples for genomic analysis and link it to hospital records Stampfer says. They dont know what happened before the diagnosis that might have affected why the patient got the disease in the first place.
Dr. Michael Murray Geisingers director of clinical genomics and a key investigator in the MyCode trial agrees that the newer longterm studies should complement the classic longterm trials. 
They have been specifically asking questions and gathering data for decades now he says. We have a very rich source of information the clinical record but thats a very different kind of information. We dont know years ago what you were eating in your diet. We expect to get that information prospectively in MyCode but we dont have it yet. Its a narrow focus only a sliver of the picture. 
Indeed no matter how many volunteers enroll in a newer trial time is a missing ingredient though that will change with passing decades. 
If you have a million people and follow them for one year youve accumulated a million personyears of followup Stampfer says. But its still only one year. If your disease takes or years to develop you wont see it until years have passed. That cant be remedied by money or people. Its a function of the passage of time.
Despite traditional studies long track record of scientific successes Stampfer says they dont get nearly the attention or funding of the newer national trials. The National Institutes of Health for example awarded the Nurses Health Study . million this year compared with the million the Obama administration and lawmakers recently allocated for the Precision Medicine Initiative. 
Stampfer says he and other leaders of the classic trials find themselves trying to persuade scientific leaders that their preprecision medicine approach is just as relevant today as it was when they began. Maybe even more so he says because they have accumulated so much valuable information over time for researchers interested in studying factors that influence disease.
Ive been trying to tell my colleagues to take into account the extraordinary value of the existing resources and data alongside these brand new cohorts he says.
The newer trials do offer participants one benefit that older trials dont. Volunteers in the longestablished trials typically are not alerted to findings that may affect their health. Test results and diagnostic information are simply entered into the research record for analysis along with a host of other variables. 
We tell them upfront that we wont be sending them any information Stampfer says noting that his studys analyses are done in a lab that isnt certified to provide results for patient care.
But Stampfer also notes that most of the genes now known to affect a persons disease risk have much less influence on longterm health than smoking diet and exercise. The value of those tests is growing but at present its pretty modest he says.
In time Murray says the newer trials will yield complementary insights that benefit health providers and patients. 
We can learn different things from the different data sets he says and use what we get to create stcentury medicine.
medicine NIH research genetics 
Tom Gallagher added to the team Ex Goldman VP seems to have a credential or two
Peer review published in UroToday Journal of Medicine highlighting HDVYs Prostate test 
Prostate tissue test launch HDC to recieve of all proceeds. Hints at more tests soon and hires firm to monetize IP portfolio. 
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery Using Support Vector Machines in a Distributed Network Environment
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Multiple Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines.
Enhancing Biological Knowledge Discovery Using Multiple Support Vector Machines.
Method of Using Kernel Alignment to Extract Significant Features from a Large Dataset
Preprocessing and Postprocessing for Enhancing Knowledge Discovery Using Support Vector Machines.
PreProcessing and PostProcessing for Enhancing Knowledge Discovery Using Support Vector Machines
Preprocessing and Postprocessing for Enhancing Knowledge Discovery Using Support Vector Machines.
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Multiple Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Multiple Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines.
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Multiple Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines.
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Multiple Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines.
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Multiple Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Multiple Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Multiple Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines.
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines
PreProcessing and PostProcessing for Enhancing Knowledge Discovery Using Support Vector Machines
PreProcessing and PostProcessing for Enhancing Knowledge Discovery Using Support Vector Machines
PreProcessing and PostProcessing for Enhancing Knowledge Discovery Using Support Vector Machines
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Multiple Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines
Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Multiple Data Sets Using Multiple Support Vector Machines
System for Providing Data Analysis Services Using a Support Vector Machine for Processing Data Received from a Remote Source
Data Mining Platform for Knowledge Discovery from Heterogeneous Data Types andor Heterogeneous Data Sources
Biomarkers for Screening Predicting and Monitoring Benign Prostate Hyperplasia
Method and System for Analysis of Flow Cytometry Data Using Support Vector Machines
Method and System for Analysis of Flow Cytometry Data Using Support Vector Machines
Method for the Manipulation Storage Modeling Visualization and Quantification of Datasets.
Method for the Manipulation Storage Modeling Visualization and Quantification of Datasets
Method for the Manipulation Storage Modeling Visualization and Quantification of Datasets.
The owner of this website medcitynews.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature bedffbfdcua.
You are leaving AARP.org and going to the website of our trusted provider. The providers terms conditions and policies apply. Please return to AARP.org to learn more about other benefits.
Manage your email preferences and tell us which topics interest you so that we can prioritize the information you receive.
Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try again.
What Social Security Questions Should We Ask the Presidential Candidates Vote Now andTake a Stand 
Online shopping playing cards and spending time with friends are all linked to better brain health as we age
Members can apply for term coverage from AARP Life Insurance Program from New York Life.
Members can locate discounts on the go via the AARP Member Advantages Offer Finder app.
Actress Valerie Harper stands up to cancer by living life to the fullest learn her invaluable secrets to joy
Up to percent of people age plus have some hearing loss and much of the time it is left untreated
Big increases in some Medicare premiums are expected according to the annual trustees reports
Figure out which longterm care insurance option best meets your health care needs
The full story of the Zika virus is still unfolding. For now heres what you need to know
When her mothers only kidney started to fail Marthita Cosgalla donated one of hers
How much do you know about the symptoms of a heart attack and what should you do to survive
Feeling tired These commonly prescribed drugs could be the cause of your fatique
A growing number of people are abusing prescription painkillers sometimes with fatal consequences
Visit the AARP state page forinformation about events news and resources near you.
AARP is a nonprofit nonpartisan organization that helps people and older improve the quality of their lives.
Aging is a selffulfilling prophecy. Science proves it. Here are five powerful benefits of proaging thinking.
Ebola is a virus with a high fatality rate that was first identified in Africa in . Learn more facts about Ebola.
The flu has already become an epidemic in the U.S. this year and is blamed for more deaths than it was at this time last year including children.
Feeling exhausted Or noticing weird muscle cramps that are throwing off your workouts You might be suffering from a magnesium deficiency.
Imagine being able to predict when the flu might strike your town a bit like how meteorologists predict when a storm is heading your way. Think about what companies or hospitals or even you could do to prepare.
A cancer sufferers life changed after watching an episode of CNNs Vital Signs. In an oped she tells us how it happened.
You can do an intermittent fasting diet and exercise too without hurting yourself. But you have plan carefully.
Caramel apples are linked to an outbreak of listeriosis. So far are dead and others are sick in states.
Being able to manage the emotional ups and downs of life is important for both body and mind.
Every year kids are bombarded with the image of a big man in a red suit who eats cookies for dinner and candy canes for dessert. 
A technician from the CDC will be monitored for weeks after possibly being exposed to the Ebola virus at one of the agencys Atlanta labs the CDC said
Childhood uveitis is rare but can cause blindness. Most young people with uveitis also have juvenile arthritis.
Gay men whove abstained from sex for one year would be able to donate blood in ending a lifetime ban by for the gay community under a FDA plan.
Heres the secret to avoiding a hangover this holiday and here are three easy things you can do to ease your symptoms.
Heres a look at listeriosis a serious infection generally caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes.
Its name means bending over in pain. It has no cure. And it has infected more than a million people since spreading to the Americas one year ago.
Experts say crafting can benefit your brain especially for those suffering from anxiety or depression. 
Elimelech Goldbergs nonprofit Kids Kicking Cancer provides martial arts classes to help children cope.
If you feel younger than your years you may live longer. Thats what a new study on aging found.
Teens are losing some of their rebellious reputation doing fewer drugs drinking and smoking less NIDA study shows.
Angelina Jolie missed the premiere of her new film because of chickenpox. This is why its good she stayed home. 
Greg Ozubkos arthritis pain was so intense he couldnt even walk. Now hes playing goalie and its all because of an NHL team with a terrible record.
Here are five simple ways to keep your home foodtemptation free. This works for even the most weakwilled among us.
The National Institutes of Health admitted a patient with exposure to the Ebola virus to the NIH Clinical Center in Bethesda Maryland Thursday afternoon.
A chemical thats in a lot of household products may be hurting childrens IQs.
Onlocation with Maasai tribes in the Tanzanian Savannah to explore how vaccines have helped reduce disease.
After taking an antibiotic a friend gave her a yearold is fighting for her life in a California hospitals burn unit.
yearold Fatu Kekula nursed her entire family through Ebola. See how she kept three alive while protecting herself against infection.
These yoga techniques are a real gift for anyone who wants to keep feeling festive despite holiday stress.
Want to reverse the early signs of Alzheimers disease Exercising getting enough sleep cutting down on processed foods and other habits may help.
New rules change the waiting list for people waiting for a new kidney. Doctors hope it will maximize scarce donor organs.
From skipping meals to eating at night its time we separate fact from fiction when it comes to metabolism and weight loss. 
Once I overcame my own selfish expectations for my daughter who has Down syndrome I slowly began to see the beautiful girl that would change my life forever.
Roughly Americans are afflicted with Bells palsy each year. This is one sons story. 
Bret Bowermans young daughter has Down syndrome. He thinks the world of her and thinks she could go to the moon
Soda makers are switching sweeteners to cut calories. But its unclear if that will really help you lose weight.
. million new HIV infections occurred in and on World AIDS day we explore whether an HIV vaccine will ever be possible to stop this rising. 
Toyrelated injuries are on the rise according to a new report. Scooters account for many of the injuries.
The chances you will get sicker or even die just because you went to the hospital have gone down dramatically according to a new report.
The number of confirmed probable and suspected cases of Ebola in the current outbreak has surpassed according to the World Health Organization.
Dan Hartmann has HIV. His wife Susan does not. They always had protected sex which was never an issue until they wanted to start a family.
The number of confirmed probable and suspected cases of Ebola in the current outbreak has surpassed according to the World Health Organization.
Roughly one in patients accidentally wakes up during surgery. Learn more about patients who wake up during surgery.
Shawn Parcells became an overnight media star for his role in a Michael Browns autopsy but info suggests hes not the expert he seems to be. 
Scientists are still examining how loneliness affects our bodies. Here are some findings over the years.
If you cant remember where your car keys are you may want to eat fewer muffins. Trans fat may hurt your memory study shows.
Will Lautzenheiser a yearold quad amputee was in surgery almost nine hours to receive his arm transplants. 
Female executives are more likely to suffer from depression than male business leaders says a new study.
November is Lung Cancer Awareness Month. There is much we can do to bring our countrys No. cancer killer out of the shadows Arielle Densen says.
People believe that stress comes from external sources. Thats why theyre so stressed author A. Parthasarathy says.
Blaec Lammers will spend the prime of his life in prison. His mother believes her sons only crime was being diagnosed with a mental illness.
American teenagers arent feeling quite as lonely as their parents were when they were teens a new study says.
Students unhappy with school meals take it out on First Lady Michelle Obama by tweeting food pictures sarcastically tagged ThanksMichelleObama.
Hugh and Chris Hempel have battled long and hard for treatment for their twin daughters rare genetic condition.
Ebola is officially eradicated from another African country the Democratic Republic of Congo the World Health Organization declared Friday.
A study found that older couples in bad marriages especially wives have a higher risk for heart disease than those who are happily wed. 
What makes a woman want to have sex isnt totally hormonal as it can be with men. Happiness is key study shows.
November marks the Great American Smokeout and exactly years since Carolyn Choate quit smoking. She thinks her life is way cooler without smoking.
A recent study published in Surgical Technology Internationals th edition says texting might be hurting your back.
Undergoing plastic surgery without telling your partner is a growing trend. Learn more about cosmetic infidelity.
The death of Dr. Martin Salia who contracted Ebola in Sierra Leone marks the second time Ebola has claimed a victim in the United States.
Joe Van Veldhuizen lost pounds to race his first Ironman. See his amazing weight loss transformation. 
If you are a klutz you may have a weak mindbody connection. These three yoga exercises can help improve your balance.
A patient diagnosed with Ebola in his native Sierra Leone arrived Saturday in Nebraska for treatment.
Clinical trials of experimental Ebola treatment will start next month in West Africa as the regional death toll from the deadly virus surpasses . 
In an exclusive interview with CNN Dr. Thomas Frieden the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention talks about Ebola response.
A surgeon whos a Sierra Leone national and a legal permanent resident of the U.S. will be treated at Nebraska Medical Center for Ebola an official says.
Gym etiquette includes cleaning up after yourself and not hogging the equipment. See this list of the worst offenders at the gym to see what not to do.
A Texas couple married Tuesday in the neonatal intensivecare unit with their prematurely born son serving as ring bearer.
A nurse died of Ebola in the Malian capital of Bamako the health ministry said Wednesday sparking fears that the nation has not defeated the deadly virus. 
Dr. Craig Spencer is now free of Ebola and will be released from a New York hospital Tuesday a city official familiar with the doctors treatment said.
Using marijuana at an early age could have longterm consequences on your brain. It may even lower your IQ according to a new study. 
McDonalds is recalling about . million Hello Kitty toys that came with some of its Happy Meals because they pose a choking risk.
Dr. Craig Spencer is now free of Ebola and will be released from a New York hospital Tuesday a city official familiar with the doctors treatment said.
Laundry detergent pods have accidentally poisoned thousands of children. Doctors are demanding better childproof designs and packaging.
When yearold Danyeil Durrant began dieting due to pressures from her mother she didnt know that this would create lasting weight issues.
After a miserable trip to Las Vegas Sarah Evans vowed to lose weight and enjoy her future. Evans lost pounds with running. 
An Illinois man was arrested in connection with the discovery of two hidden cameras found in a gyms tanning salon. 
Nurse Kaci Hickox and her boyfriend are planning to travel to southern Maine from Fort Kent Maine after her day monitoring period ends this week.
World Vasectomy Day encourages men to shoulder part of the responsibility for family planning. Learn more about World Vasectomy Days inception.
Amber Vinson says she followed all the rules when caring for an Ebola patient and she doesnt know how she got the deadly virus.
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine goes to John OKeefe and MayBritt and Edvard Moser for work on cells that form a positioning system in the brain
The Obama administration plans to seek more than billion from Congress to fight Ebola an official told CNN Wednesday.
Healthy restaurant choices can be hard to find. See these tips to decode restaurant menus so you can choose the healthier options and avoid extra calories.
Shift work has a chronic effect on your intellectual abilities and if done over years can prematurely age your brain a new study has found.
Are you looking for a doctor or location Want to chat about a question you have or information youre looking for Select Chat Now to be connected with someone who can help.
Our annual report to the community highlights our successes as well as details our community support from last year.
At MultiCare we take quality care seriously and we continually work to improve our care. Our Quality Report Card helps us and you keep track of how were doing.
A TV program that aired last week on The Discovery Channel highlighted the innovative work at the Childrens Therapy Unit at MultiCare Good Samaritan Hospital in Puyallup Wash.
Health Heroes focused on an advanced technology called Surface Electromyography SEMG that lets therapists and physicians monitor muscle activity to improve treatment decisions for their patients. At Good Samaritan the technology has opened the doors to develop new knowledge and improve outcomes for neurologically impaired individuals. 
With surface EMG we can put sensors on the top of the skin and record the patterns of how the brain is activating the muscles said Glenn Kasman PT SEMG author and President of MultiCare Good Samaritan Hospital.
David G. Embrey Ph.D PT Research Program Coordinator at MultiCare Good Samaritan Hospitals Childrens Therapy Unit explained his practical applications of the advanced technology in his treatment of children with cerebral palsy and other neurological disorders. One video clip showed a young toddler with cerebral palsy who struggled to walk. Now years later the boy is able to run thanks to clinical decisions and interventions based on SEMG data. 
Dr. Embrey has already received on U.S. patent for a device that stimulates the muscles that lift the foot and drive the foot forward while walking. The medical breakthrough called a Gait MyoElectric Stimulator shows promise treating patients with stroke children with cerebral palsy and people with multiple sclerosis. 
Embreys research has also been published in the prestigious Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. Read the study.
In addition to helping children the SEMG technology also is used for adults with stroke or multiple sclerosis. 
In order to properly diagnose and treat motor disorders its important to gather as much information as you can and thats where the neuroscience comes into it said Robert Cooper MD pediatric physiatrist at MultiCare Mary Bridge Childrens Hospital Health Center in Tacoma. SEMG enables therapists to go inside the body and learn how the brain talks to the muscles. In turn this allows therapists and doctors to see how the muscles work to achieve functional movement and accomplish specific tasks.
If you decide you want to move your leg your thought becomes an electric impulse from the brain travels through the spinal cord it goes to the peripheral nerve which joins to the muscle. And its that wave of electrical activity that makes the muscle contract. So using electromyography or EMG you can tap into that signal and figure out how the muscle is firing.
Subscribe to Healthy Living a monthly email newsletter that brings wellness tips healthy recipes and health news straight to your inbox.
Tue Apr A man visiting the University of Alberta dental clinic got quite a surprise during his appointment. Plus SuLing Goh tells us about the importance of dads health and a an unignorable campaign.
Discovery Health televisions home for gripping reallife medical mysteries and forensic investigations takes the genre to the next level with the networks monthlong programming event Mystery March. Beginning March at PM ETPT Discovery Health will air three backtoback hours of its most riveting and compelling medical mystery programming every Monday in March. 
Each episode of Mystery Diagnosis profiles the stories of vigilant patients and their passionate advocates who refuse to take no for an answer as they endeavor to solve their own medical mysteries. The premiere episode tells the heartbreaking tale of yearold Ashley whose life is forever altered after a devastating misdiagnosis of a bizarre lump found on her right shoulder. Mystery Diagnosis profiles the strength and courage of heroic patients and determined medical practitioners as they struggle to make sense of their baffling conditions.
DiscoveryHealth.com will also launch allnew online elements including Getting Help an interactive discussion forum on medical conditions and a ShoutOut Wall where visitors can post their comments about the diagnosis and treatment process. The site will feature a refreshed game section with a Mystery Diagnosisthemed quiz medical mystery trivia based on episodes of the hit series Mystery ER and a brandnew matching game called Match That Microbe. In addition DiscoveryHealth.com will provide a disease resource catalog directing visitors to the appropriate organizations for help or more information on specific medical conditions. 
Youll find these bladed beauties in the hills of La Mancha to the American heartland to Greeces sundrenched Cyclades.
As more people opt for communityfocused outdoor boot camps the reign of the treadmillobsessed gym rat is coming to an end.
Despite being brainless pea plants can gauge risk and gamble in a way previously seen only in animals according to a new study.
Test your knowledge of this species thats so critical to North Americas ecology. 
As the district bakes the National Building Museum is transformed into a shiverinducing refuge.
When Jupiters largest moons were discovered they were named after the mythical gods lovers. Guess who just arrived to crash the party
The most comprehensive cover offered by Discovery medical aid plans are found in their Coastal Core and Coastal Classic plans. Under these packages Discovery will pay the full cost of bills from surgeons and anaesthetists plus they provide chronic medication benefits and emergency transportation cover that include emergency airlift by helicopter. These Discovery medical aid plans also provide for unlimited hospitalization and daytoday cover of services.
Discovery medical aid plans are designed to meet the needs and budget constraints of their members. Discovery Health is one of the largest providers of medical aid plans in South Africa. They have over million people on their rolls and continue to add more each day.
One of the reasons Discovery medical aid plans are the first choice for health cover is that they are one of the few to allow members to downgrade their cover at any time. This can help if money gets tight. However members can only upgrade their Discovery medical aid plans once a year.
For people who are looking to pay less and dont foresee a need for full comprehensive cover Discovery medical aid plans also include products that cost much less than the Coastal Core and Coastal Classic products. The Coastal Saver will pay some health bills in total and up to on others. Members can fill out the cover on budget Discovery medical aid plans by purchasing have stop gap products. Stop gap products allow you to add cover to use with an existing plan to reduce the cost of services not fully paid. Members can also opt into a savings plan to set aside money in case of medical need.
Discovery medical aid plans also include a product called Classic Comprehensive. This plan offers unlimited hospital benefits and uses the savings plan to pay up to of the bill before the threshold amount is reached and Discovery pays the rest. This plan also allows for unused savings to roll over into the next plans cover. There are several more products offered by Discovery medical aid plans. Sitting with an agent and discussing your needs is the best way to find the right one for you
At Medical Aid we aim to provide our users with as much information as possible to make your lives easier.
Download the Watch OWN app and access OWN anytime anywhere. Watch full episodes and live stream OWN whenever and wherever you want. The Watch OWN app is free and available to you as part of your OWN subscription through a participating TV provider.
Subscribe to O The Oprah Magazine for up to OFF what others pay on the newsstand thats like getting FREE issues
OPRAH IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF HARPO INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED HARPO PRODUCTIONS INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
