All the news on the latest murder cases and convictions in the UK and around the world. Check back for updates.
Ms Edkins watched on with members of Pistorius family as the former Olympic and Paralympic star was jailed for six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Alan Tait listened to four weeks of evidence during the trial of Rachel Trelfa and Nyomi Fee who were today sentenced to life in prison for killing the twoyearold
Pistorius who shot Ms Steenkamp in the bathroom of his home could have received years but was described as a broken man suffering serious psychological trauma
The barbaric acts carried out by Rachel Fee and her partner Nyomi Fee towards three children was at times impossible to comprehend
The mumoftwo was found with stab wounds after Sarah Williams allegedly paralysed her with a stun gun then stabbed her in an orgy of violence
The Olympic and Paralympic icon who shot Ms Steenkamp in the bathroom of his home in Pretoria could face years in jail after he was convicted of murder last December
The Olympic and Paralympic icon who shot Ms Steenkamp in the bathroom of his home in Pretoria could face years in prison after he was convicted of murder last December
The yearold appeared at North Gauteng High Court this morning to be sentenced for murder after his original culpable homicide conviction was overturned
A serious case review found last month that Dame Mary Hoggs court rulings had hindered the authorities from intervening and potentially saving Ellies life
Sarah Williams allegedly stabbed the motheroftwo at least times with a kitchen knife then planned to plant an Islamic State flag at the scene to throw off police jurors heard
Sarah Williams and Katrina Walsh both appeared at Preston Crown Court today charged with the businesswomans murder
Several body parts washed up on the popular South Pacific island last month including dismembered feet weighed down with rocks and wrapped in a fishing net
Sarah Williams and Katrina Walsh both deny murdering the mumoftwo at her home in Helmshore Rossendale
Lewis Pierre was found guilty by a jury in less than two hours of murdering yearold Daria Pionko and will be given life imprisonment
Legal sources say his time in jail already served as well as his disability might see his serve less than the minimum term
David Daithi Douglas was rushed to hospital but pronounced dead a short time later police are investigating whether his murder is linked to a bitter gang feud
Shanynthia Gardner allegedly chased a fifth child out of her apartment after murdering his four siblings but he managed to escape
A CERTAIN AGE by Beatriz Willia.
And the War on Terror which I call the War To Promote Terror is still going on years later with no end in sight. The funding for it is unquestioned and seemingly limitless. The point of it is also unquestioned except at the social and political margins.
While white trans women and trans feminine people have escaped much of the worst violence Black Latinx Native American and other transgender people of color have not.
Half a week into the Orlando tragedy this reality remains pretty much unacknowledged as causeseekers focus on security and.
I remember exactly where I was in April when Timothy McVeigh exploded a Ryder rental truck packed with explosives outside the Murrah Build.
Stigma keeps us from talking about mental illness but its time to raise our voices now that weve suffered the largest mass shooting in American his.
Sending love and prayers and thoughts is fine but it is not enough. You need to be furious and you need to send that collective fury to every elected official in your land.
A twenty something chap living in London and writing about all sorts. Ive been known to have an opinion.
Laura Lippman began writing novels while working as a reporter. Seven Tess Monaghan books were published before she left journalism in .
It is men like you and your Biblethumbing Christian backers who spread murder hatred and chaos across a divided America. Were there real justice YOU would be charged as an accessory to murderas would others of your ilk to helped spawn these murders over the last years.
I dont know when I last read such an intoxicating novel. This is the water Murphy writes treating setting as character. The water in the pool has.
In a landmark decision earlier this week the U.S. Supreme Court voided a nearly yearold murder conviction of a black inmate in Georgia due to.
I begin this review by saying how incredibly brave generous and amazing I find William Genovese. If you run for p.
Watertree Health Digital Strategist Published in Forbes. TEDEd Lesson Creator.
Ah Venezuela. A sunny and picturesque country at the top of South America with swaths of oil reser.
The pain and torment which affects me and tens of millions of others is occurring in the South American nation of Venezuela one which has tightened the noose around its neck over the last two decades with bad policy after bad policy.
The state says he has shown no remorse and has called for him to receive no less than the minimum year sentence for murder.
A businessman here strangulated his wife a Congolese national cut the body into pieces and set them ablaze as he was suspecting her character police said on Tuesday.
P. Ramkumar the suspected killer of Infosys engineer S. Swathi on Tuesday pleaded not guilty in the sensational murder case and told police that he is being framed in the case.
In a horrific incident a man in Hyderabad allegedly killed his wife Cynthia cut her body into pieces stuffed them in a suitcase and tried to set the suitcase ablaze at an isolated place near Madanpally village at Shamshabad on Monday night.
Seven members of an outlawed Bangladeshi Islamist group have been charged with the attempted murder of an Italian priest who was wounded in a shooting last year police said Monday.
We bring to you few details about Ramkumar the prime suspect in Infosys techie murder case.
In Tamil Nadu the prime accused Ramkumar in the software engineer Swathi murder case will be brought before Chennai Egmore court today.
A Russian couple from Fiji are thought to have been murdered and dismembered after human body parts washed up on a beach in the Pacific island nation.
Maoist guerrillas killed two men accusing them of being police informers in Jharkhands Giridih district on Sunday police said.
In a shocking incident a sevenyear girl was first raped and then murdered after three weeks later by the rapists family to prevent the victim from narrating her ordeal.
A yearold dance instructor committed suicide after allegedly strangling his suspected lover in the national capital a police officer said on Wednesday.
A woman was allegedly raped by a senior Tripura Civil Service officer when she went to his residence in South Ramnagar police said today.
Former RJD MP MohamamadShahabuddin files a petition in Siwanspecial court claiming threat to his life from state govt.
Five persons were today sentenced to life imprisonment and a fine ofRs imposed on each of them by a court here in a murder case.
A person was hacked to death by unidentified men in Chennais Nandanam area on Monday sending shock waves across the city.
In a harrowing incident a yearold man allegedly killed a woman with whom he had been living and her three teenaged daughters in Chennai.
Three federal police were shot dead as they ate in a market in a southern Mexican town beset by disappearances and recent discoveries of bodies in clandestine graves.
A labourer was allegedly beaten to death by his employer and his family members when he demanded that he be paid his wages in Atali village here police said on Friday.
The Saudi Interior Ministry announced on Friday that two Islamic State IS members attacked their own family and killed the mother a media report said.
Paralympic gold medallist Oscar Pistorius will not appeal a sixyear prison sentence given by a South African High Court judge on Wednesday for the murder of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp his defence team said. 
Former Olympian Oscar Pistorius Sentenced To Years In Prison For Girlfriends Murder
Oscar Pistorius the doubleamputee who dazzled the world by running in the Olympics on bladelike prosthetic legs was sentenced to years in prison for the murder of his girlfriend model Reeva Steenkamp. 
Doubleamputee Olympic sprinter Oscar Pistorius was on Wednesday sentenced to six years in jail for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago. 
South African Paralympic gold medallist Oscar Pistorius arrived in court on Wednesday for sentencing for the murder of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp bringing the curtain down on a trial that gripped the world. 
Akshay Kumar stars as naval commander Rustom Pavri a fictionalised version of K M Nanavati who was tried and acquitted for the murder of his wifes lover leading to the scrapping of Indias jury system 
Oscar Pistorius has been sentenced to six years in prison for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in February 
Muneer the mastermind behind the murder of NIA officer Tanzil Ahmad was involved in six criminal cases in the national capital including the murder of a police official in Jaffrabad and the Rs . crore robbery in Kamla Nagar in which a security guard was killed Delhi Police said on Tuesday. 
South African paralympic gold medallist Oscar Pistorius will be sentenced to jail on Wednesday for the murder of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in but for how long depends largely on how the judge will weigh the role of his disability in the killing. 
Oscar Pistorius could be sentenced to a lengthy prison time for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago 
The prime accused in the murder of a young woman IT professional today moved a Chennai court seeking bail claiming that he was not involved in the crime. 
A stockbroker in Hyderabad allegedly murdered his wife chopped up her body and tried to burn it on Monday evening. 
A man was allegedly beaten to death by two passersby for accidentally splashing rain water on them in Anand Parvat area in central Delhi police said today. 
A special court in Mumbai today asked CBI to file its reply by July on the plea of Peter Mukerjea former media baron and a coaccused in Sheena Bora murder case seeking the statement of a secret witness submitted to the court by the central agency. 
Disgraced Paralympian Oscar Pistorius could return to jail on Wednesday when a judge is set to sentence him for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago. 
The accused in the murder of a woman IT employee here arrested last week and hospitalised in Tirunelveli after attempting suicide while being nabbed was today brought to the city and admitted to a government hospital where a magistrate remanded him in judicial custody. 
The drunk trio was attacking a local when a passing patrolling policeman and a subinspector intervened. The accused directed their ire at the ASI before the cops overpowered them
The constable was arrested from his colony and released on a bail of Rs Byculla police have submitted a report to the DCP recommending suspension and an inquiry against him
City Police today arrested a man who had allegedly raped and murdered a yearold girl at Bollarum area here.
CBI arrested Rajendra Kumar for misusing his official position to ease tenders worth Rs . crore since 
A rickshaw driver from Malad has been arrested for luring a minor with the promise of marriage and raping her. The girls mother who is undergoing treatment for paralysis used to be transported to and from a hospital by him
The Economic Offence Wing EOW of Odisha Polices Crime Branch said it had on Sunday arrested an official who was absconding after being accused of defrauding the state government by issuing a fake gazette notification and swindling public money
The Cyber police have arrested the West Bengalbased owner of two websites for allegedly procuring live data from the National Stock Exchange NSE and selling it illegally through the websites
An unidentified womans highly decomposed body was found at Fatherwadi near Vidya Vikas High School and Jr College in Vasai yesterday afternoon. Body found by boys who were playing cricket
Four persons were arrested for allegedly severely beating three minor boys for stealing money in Bengaluru Rural district last week police said on Sunday
In a dramatic case that lasted for about minutes to nab a year old man in pocession of an Italian made . CAL MM semi automatic Gun and live cartridges the Tilak Nagar police arrested Navinchandra Kadappa Kundar he was finally caught near the skywalk bridge located close to Chembur railway station
The Bhandup police has registered an FIR against a yearold for allegedly raping a yearold girl
According to police one of the accused in the Rs crore robbery in Thane visited the Saibaba temple at Shirdi after the robbery to seek blessings and donated Rs lakh
yearold woman Vrushali Bamanewho siphoned off Rs . crore from her company was eyeing the owners fixed deposits when she was arrested
The Bangur Nagar cops have arrested a yearold man who targeted successful women on a matrimonial site and cheated them of lakhs he already has two wives
Recent incident of an attempted theft at Jupiter Hospital in Thane during which the thief was nabbed redhanded by one of his victims has raised serious doubts over security arrangements at the facility
Pune police have arrested three persons including a woman from New Delhi for allegedly duping over sixty people in Maharashtra by them promising loans at a low interest rate
Cops are amazed by how Std XII pass Vrushali Bamane not only managed to embezzle over Rs crore but also shrewdly invested it in properties across the state
Police said the accused Suresh Bije a former watchman hit his wife Priti on her head with a hammer then cut both her wrists before hanging himself from the ceiling fan
Ghatkoparbased travel agency owner who was arrested by the Kurla RPF used USmade software to generate fake IRCTC accounts to execute his nefarious act
In a massive night time robbery a group of around seven people entered a private company and fled with Rs . crore in cash in three drums along with six mobile phones
Stay updated with latest crime news cyber crime news crime cases rape news from hundreds of sources all in one place. Get the indepth coverage of crime cases in India the world in this Crime News Section.
The yearold son of Alton Sterling a black man who was shot and killed during a confrontation with police officers in Baton Rouge Louisiana wept uncontrollably this morning as his mother spoke to the media. He had to watch this as this was put all over the outlets Cameron Sterlings mother
Oscar Pistorius described by a judge as a fallen hero sentenced to years in South African prison for the murder of girlfriend a ruling criticized by some as too lenient
Kidnapped Sierra Leone diplomat freed Nigeria police say not clear if ransom was paid
A Bangladeshi politician whose son was one of the Dhaka restaurant attackers says many young men from educated families have been missing like his son was for several months before carrying out the deadly attack
A glance at the life of Oscar Pistorius who was sentenced to years in prison for the murder of girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp a fall from grace for the disabled Olympian
And today sect by stealing a car goes high tech in police and insurance companies say some thieves are using laptops to hack into the ignition systems. And steal vehicles other fees are able to compromise those key fob remotes that unlocked doors. Owners should press the lock button on the remote
Pope Francis met with the parents of a U.S. student found dead in a river in Rome this morning. Beau Solomon of Spring Green Wisconsin was in Rome to study at John Cabot University. He disappeared the night of July police said after he was last seen in a bar not far from the Tiber river.
The man famous for his many years as a motorcycle cop on the hit s TV series CHiPs is now a reserve police officer in Idaho
Hong Kong officials say theres little chance a bookseller wanted in mainland China would be sent back after mainland authorities threatened him with tougher punishment if he didnt return
The sketch of a murder accused drawn up by the Kamakshipalya police helped the cops eventually solve a fourmonthold case.
The African woman who created a ruckus at National Market on Monday and then followed the show up with another one at K C General Hospital along with her Indian boyfriend were questioned by the Upparpet police on Wednesday.
A yearold tax consultant from Odisha narrowly escaped being abducted by a group of four armed men but her friend was not so lucky he was beaten black and blue by the thugs.
A panchayat development officer PDO was caught redhanded by the AntiCorruption Bureau sleuths while accepting a bribe of Rs . It was a part of his Rs demand to issue a khata.
Finally Abhishek Kumar the man who took to social media to warn people about online frauds after a prospective buyer took off in his SUV has a reason to cheer. The city police have not only nabbed the culprit but also recovered the Scorpio from him. The vehicle thief was arrested from Sarjapura area on Monday by a team led by inspectors P Narasimhamurthy and Narayana Gowda. The culprit yearold Sunil was caught after investigating officers took the cue from a picture shared by Abhishek according to Narasimhamurthy.
The incident of ragging that took place at Al Qamar Collge on June has taken a new twist as a group of invigilators formed by the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences to look into the matter have submitted a report negating the fact.
An yearold youth was caught on Monday evening while wheeling his scooter in Indiranagar.
In what is said to be the first case of its kind a phishing scam has claimed the life of a yearold woman in the citys police limits. In previous cases victims of the scam would approach the police or cyber crime officials to initiate action against the accused who operate from undisclosed locations.
She was found dead at her residence and police claim it was a case of suicide but no suicide note found
A yearold youth on the way to a friends house after partying in a restaurant in Indiranagar was attacked by three persons who took away his Iphone some cash and other valuables late on Sunday.
A preuniversity student who rushed to the aid of girls being harassed at a BMTC bus stop on the busy Mother Theresa Road on June was brutally beaten up by the harassers. He got stiches on his head and returned home on Sunday.
The yearold commerce graduate was depressed as he was unemployed for almost a year
More than hundred policemen raided areas in Bangaluru in guise of commuters for four hours
MBA grad cheated institutions across the country of Rs lakh in return for permits from Centre
Instances of tenants being denied their advances at the time of vacating a house are not uncommon but there are also rare instances of physical brutality where the tenant is assaulted for demanding their money back.
Two astrologers said to be fake were caught and taken into custody by the Basaveshwara Nagar police station on Saturday. The accused have not let out their real names but they introduced themselves as Anand and Murali.
Four youths who appeared to be under the influence of alcohol created a ruckus in a reputed fivestar hotel off the Intermediate Ring Road opposite Embassy Golf Links only to be arrested by the police in the wee hours of Thursday.
Students had forced a junior to drink toilet cleaning fluid remanded in judicial custody
In yet another case of public apathy a yearold security guard was attacked in Raj Gopal Nagar on Thursday by four people when he objected to them talking loudly to a woman employee at an incense factory that he worked in. It was broad daylight .pm in the busy area yet no one came to the youths rescue.
Following the Provident Fundrelated protest by members of various garments factories and the atrocities that a majority of women workers claim they were subjected to that came to light the city police has been holding awareness programs for garments factory workers as part of vigorous community policing efforts since June.
Police use text msgs as evidence investigating if company had mandatory sexual harassment committee
In when drivers employed with the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation KSRTC were frequently penalised for tyrebursts one of them rebelled. He didnt want to pay a fine of Rs for no fault of his own. The noise he made over it eventually brought to light a scam of Rs crore at the transport corporation.
In many ways theirs was not an ordinary family mother daughter and a father who did not live with them for years. In fact he had left home when his wife was pregnant.
She needs endoscopy procedure but her food pipe is burnt college however calls it a suicide attempt
School bags water bottles and tiffin boxes lay strewn everywhere. It was a pathetic sight at Movady cross in Trasi after a Maruti Omni van collided with a bus at Kundapur in Udupi taluk on Tuesday morning.
And so after years several rounds of court proceedings and a podcast that captured the nations attention Adnan Syed has been granted a new trial. As in all serious criminal cases we can all hope that the evidence will be presented litigated and considered fairly and that the process will be one that gives us confidence in whatever result ensues.
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more.
NMMCs water cut from January until recently gets mirrored in the outflow More..
NMMCs water cut from January until recently gets mirrored in the outflow from the six STPs the study made by the civic body is of FebruaryMarch. On an average the STP outflow has also had a approx. cut from normal times with variations in nodal outflows Less..
And so after years several rounds of court proceedings and a podcast that captured the nations attention Adnan Syed has been granted a new trial. As in all serious criminal cases we can all hope that the evidence will be presented litigated and considered fairly and that the process will be one that gives us confidence in whatever result ensues.
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more.
NMMCs water cut from January until recently gets mirrored in the outflow More..
NMMCs water cut from January until recently gets mirrored in the outflow from the six STPs the study made by the civic body is of FebruaryMarch. On an average the STP outflow has also had a approx. cut from normal times with variations in nodal outflows Less..
.
According to police sources the complainant identified as Sarang Awatankar running a firm in the name of Jain Builders and Developers used to beMore.
Mumbai July IANS Film celebrities like Adnan Sami Hansal Mehta and Ali Zafar on Tuesday condemned the blasts which took place near mosques in the holy Saudi city of Medina and in Qatif. A suicide bomber blew himself up beside the security headquarters in Prophet Mohammeds mosque in the Saudi city of Medina on Monday local media reported. A second blast took place also on Monday near a mosque in the Shia city of Qatif in the eastern part of the country Xinhua cited Al Arabiya local news as saying.
Click here and get a complete education course where you will learn on how to triple your investment by trading oil online.
Behind the public war of words between various stakeholders of the coach selection process the Indian team underwent a training camp in Bangalore. The fiveday workout was meant to get the players back in action before they boarded the flight to West Indies as also to introduce them to their new coach Anil Kumble. Things went ahead as planned couple of intense net sessions an open practice session in Alur on a match wicket and a couple team bonding activities.
Mumbai July IANS Film celebrities like Adnan Sami Hansal Mehta and Ali Zafar on Tuesday condemned the blasts which took place near mosques in the holy Saudi city of Medina and in Qatif. A suicide bomber blew himself up beside the security headquarters in Prophet Mohammeds mosque in the Saudi city of Medina on Monday local media reported. A second blast took place also on Monday near a mosque in the Shia city of Qatif in the eastern part of the country Xinhua cited Al Arabiya local news as saying.
They invested in stocks in order to generate an additional income. Discover how they did it.
Behind the public war of words between various stakeholders of the coach selection process the Indian team underwent a training camp in Bangalore. The fiveday workout was meant to get the players back in action before they boarded the flight to West Indies as also to introduce them to their new coach Anil Kumble. Things went ahead as planned couple of intense net sessions an open practice session in Alur on a match wicket and a couple team bonding activities.
.
Det. Mark Underwood said the man used stolen credit card information to order products online then waited outside victims homes.
The images from cams in the area of one of the crimes are sharp and it should be easy to recognize the person in them police told a Tuesday morning news conference.
Two yearold suspects are alleged to have forced a yearold girl into sex work. 
The man was sent to hospital with a facial injury and was expected to undergo surgery Tuesday.
Irked by continuing systemic issues at Division Ontario Court Justice stops impaireddriving charge of man forced to remove his pants.
Shamraaj Thavagnanathiruchelvam has been charged after a woman was repeatedly assaulted woman on Canada Day in Scarborough. 
Ravin Pillay who represented Millard at trial said Monday a notice of appeal will be filed. 
A yearold man from Ajax will be charged with mischief after bag of clothing was tossed over front desk on Saturday.
In an exclusive interview with the Star Candice Rochelle Bobbs family opens up about the pregnant womans shooting death and the short life of her premature son Kyrie. 
Tom Stathopoulos is charged after a man was taken to hospital with a gunshot wound early Sunday. Police are looking for the gun from the incident.
Amina Chaudhary who was convicted in the slaying of her exlovers nephew was released to a halfway house last month but it may be shortlived. 
Justin Bokma and LeFranc Matthews were killed at a Kensington Market afterhours club.
Toronto Police say that one man died on the scene and another died in hospital.
The provinces police watchdog has cleared two Toronto cops who shot and killed Kwasi SkenePeters after a probe determined they acted in selfdefence during an early morning firefight last summer.
The downtown apartment was surrounded by police with guns drawn earlier Thursday.
Paul Dubes report looks at various ways to improve police training in deescalation techniques particularly when dealing with people in a mental health crisis.
People in crisis like Sammy Yatim are dying not because cops dont follow the rules but because they do says Paul Dubs report which makes recommendations to change that.
Depressed and divorcing dad gave his two young children sleeping pills and wine in a motel room after picking them up from school. 
Matthew Coussons charged with seconddegree murder in the death of his fiance.
Toronto Police are investigating a suspicious death after a woman was found without vital signs at the HavANap motel.
Matthew Coussons walked into a police station to report an incident. He was later charged with seconddegree murder.
The National Capital Commission has blamed one of its junior officers for telling two girls aged seven and five who were fundraising to pack up their stand and leave.
Retired cops nabbed for tampering with investigation may get bail for lack of evidence no breakthrough in case yet
Accused and his first wife whom he went back to allegedly tortured the complainant
Bajaj Allianz duped of Rs lakh as doctor submitted fake proofs of his patients being treated at a Kanpurbased facility
In one of the biggest incidents of its kind in the state armed dacoits stormed into a cash management firm in Thane and decamped with around Rs crore in cash police said on Tuesday.
unit with five persons arrested and gold ornaments worth Rs lakh recovered from their possession.
In another incident of a cab driver looting a passenger a yearold man was on Saturday robbed of cash and ornaments worth Rs . lakh at Shivajinagar by a cab driver and his accomplice.
A foreignmade revolver and seven mobile phones have been seized by officials of Pimpri police station over the last two days in two separate cases.
PDLSA launches Mobile Legal ServicescumLok Adalat scheme where a van goes around the city and rural areas to deal out justice
Pandit Mukul Shivputra lost his ATM card Rs in cash and other documents
Lens on Viman Nagar IVF clinic frequented by accused who lured slum women to donate eggs there but kept most of donor amount
Additional sessions judge CVB Kulkarmi on Monday rejected the bail applications filed by former senior police inspector Bhausaheb Andhalkar and former assistant police inspector Namdev Kauthale who were arrested in the murder case of Right to Information activist Satish Shetty. Currently both are lodged in Yerwada Central Jail.
Officials from the Pune Government Railway Police GRP have nabbed two gangs which were involved in robbery and stealing goods after spiking passengers drinks.
Sleuths from the local crime branch LCB of Pune rural police have seized skin and nails of an adult leopard on Sunday.
The complainant alleges that the duo was running a fake company to cheat people
Abducted in SUV at fivestar hotel driven around town cellphone snatched as ATM card fails to yield money
Complaint filed against the duo from Ahmedabad by a Pune resident who had opened a branch for their Linkon India Tours and Travels at Kothrud on April 
Complainant claimed the agency had taken money for a tour and then never arranged it
The lure of getting good returns on investment in highrisk share trading cost a man Rs . crore. Now an FIR has been registered against the accused for sharetrading in his name by keeping him in the dark.
A man is charged with murder over a fatal stabbing at Schofields in Sydneys west at the weekend.
A yearold Broadmeadows man is remanded to face court charged with the murder of a woman and the alleged assault of three children.
Disgraced Paralympian Oscar Pistorius has been sentenced to six years jail for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago.
Disgraced Paralympian Oscar Pistorius is sentenced to six years jail for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago.
Police divers uncover new clues in the investigation into a womans body found in a large suitcase in Perths Swan River.
A Perth man who slit his mothers throat moments after telling her he loved her has been found not guilty of murder on the grounds he was of unsound mind.
Prosecutors drop a murder charge against the daughter of former NSW premier Neville Wran as court documents reveal details about the violent robbery that led to the death of a Sydney drug dealer.
The death toll from a massive suicide bombing in Baghdad over the weekend has reached Iraqs Health Ministry says.
A man who was once acquitted of major terrorism offences is questioned in connection with the murder of a woman whose body was found in Melbournes north last month.
The death toll from Sundays Baghdad suicide bombing claimed by the Islamic State group has risen to at least officials say making it one of the deadliest ever militant attacks in Iraq.
Perth police call for public help to identify a woman whose body was found in a suitcase in the Swan River at East Fremantle on Saturday. 
Police in Fiji believe a Russian husband and wife who were reported missing last month were murdered and their bodies dismembered.
The daughter of former New South Wales premier Neville Wran pleaded not guilty to the August murder of drug dealer Daniel McNulty.
A toddler found dead north of Brisbane last month suffered trauma injuries investigators believe were deliberately inflicted about a week before his death police say.
Four people riding mini motorbikes were really flogging it before one of them hit yearold Andrea Lehane on a pedestrian crossing at a shopping centre in Melbournes southeast a witness tells court.
Veronique Pozners son was killed at the Sandy Hook Elementary school shooting the ABC crew revisits her family to see how their lives have changed since the killing.
The sister of murdered Dubbo man Alois Rez tells a Sydney court that the loss of her brother created a dark hole that burns through your body.
A Hindu priest is hacked to death by three men on a motorcycle in front of a temple in western Bangladesh police say.
The SA Supreme Court judge hearing the Louise Bell murder trial receives a letter from a member of the public prompting investigations by the defence.
A man accused of being connected to the shooting murder of Wollongong crime figure Saso Ristevski is refused bail.
A man charged with murdering a sixmonthold baby does not appear in court with his lawyer expressing concern for her clients mental health.
A yearold Israeli girl is stabbed to death by an intruder who broke into her bedroom while she was sleeping in the occupied West Bank.
Police charge a man with murder after the death of a sixmonthold baby in Melbournes north on Sunday.
A woman accused of drowning three of her children by driving into a lake stood next to the car doing nothing as others tried to save them a court hears. 
This service may include material from Agence FrancePresse AFP APTN Reuters AAP CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST Australian Eastern Standard Time which is hours ahead of UTC Greenwich Mean Time
Louisana Gov. John Bel Edwards announced the Department of Justice will lead the probe into the killing of Alton Sterling. 
A California man who said Google was watching him faces federal charges in three attacks on the companys Silicon Valley headquarters. 
A naked Brooklyn artist carried off a Queens beach in handcuffs says the arrest tainted the sandy shore where he exchanged vows. 
Louisiana cops shot and killed a yearold man selling music outside a Baton Rouge convenience store early Tuesday. 
A TV news reporter was robbed in Brooklyn while covering the fatal shooting of a man by an offduty police officer. 
A Louisiana inmate made a quick detour before heading to his trial onto the New Orleans courthouses roof. 
Hes charged with two counts of fourthdegree sexual assault and two counts of practicing massage therapy without a license. 
The man allegedly made the woman believe she would be physically harmed by organized crime if she didnt comply. 
Andrew Sadek turned up dead in April after he made three buys for the drug task force. 
A mother whose two baby girls were killed in a Bronx blaze after she left them alone in an apartment with burning incense has been charged. 
The Georgia mother who threw her teen daughter a wild party with alcohol marijuana and naked Twister has been sentenced to probation. 
An Illinois flagburning protester can continue setting the Stars and Stripes on fire. 
A scissorwielding Japanese man who cut off his wifes lovers penis was sentenced to four and a half years in prison on Tuesday. 
Cops in Italy arrested a homeless man suspected of slaying an American college student found dead in Rome while studying abroad. 
Louisana Gov. John Bel Edwards announced the Department of Justice will lead the probe into the killing of Alton Sterling. 
Hoverboards are dangerousyou already knew that but the government is finally doing something about it. 
It turns out Gayle King has a steeltrap memory especially when it comes to philandering exes. 
Theres breaking news at Fox of the kind the network would have liked to desperately avoid. 
The heartbroken son of a black man killed by Baton Rouge cops broke down in tears Wednesday at the mention of his father. 
Murder Inc. the Five Families John Gotti Lucky Lucchiano Son of Sam. the Daily News has all the unforgettable crime photos you are looking for. Order yours today. 
Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
According to police sources the complainant identified as Sarang Awatankar running a firm in the name of Jain Builders and Developers used to beMore.
Olympic athlete Oscar Pistorius has been found guilty of murder after a South African appeals court overturned an earlier manslaughter verdict.
Pistorius killed his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in February after shooting four times through a locked toilet door.
He is currently under house arrest after spending one year of his original fiveyear sentence in jail.
Pistorius a sixtime Paralympic gold medallist whose legs were amputated below the knee as a baby made history by becoming the first amputee sprinter to compete at the Olympics in running on prosthetic blades.
South Africas Supreme Court of Appeal ruled that the lower court did not correctly apply the rule of dolus eventualis whether Pistorius knew that a death would be a likely result of his actions.
The minimum sentence for murder in South Africa is years but judges can apply some discretion.
South African law does not make provision for someone to be placed under house arrest for more than five years so Pistorius will be going back to prison reports the BBCs Pumza Fihlani in Johannesburg.
Yes. He will be back behind bars less than two months after he was placed under house arrest. 
We dont have a date yet but it will be next year. The minimum sentence for murder is years but the judge does have the discretion to lower it.
Yes but only if his lawyers are convinced that the appeal judges violated his constitutional rights. So its a high threshold and hard to meet. 
Almost certainly. Hes and will be past his prime by the time he is freed. It is also unlikely that advertisers would want to sponsor him as the Pistorius brand is now tainted. 
Pistorius family gave a brief response saying lawyers are studying the finding who will advise them on options going forward. 
The panel of appeal judges described the case as a human tragedy of Shakespearean proportions in their written judgement.
Reading the unanimous ruling reached by the five judges Justice Eric Leach said that having armed himself with a highcalibre weapon Pistorius must have foreseen that whoever was behind the door might die especially given his firearms training.
As a matter of common sense at the time the fatal shots were fired the possibility of the death of the person behind the door was clearly an obvious result the judge said.
Pistorius always maintained that he believed there was an intruder in the house but the judge said that the identity of the person behind the door was irrelevant to his guilt.
Justice Leach compared it to someone setting off a bomb in a public place not knowing who the victims might be.
In a packed courtroom with Reeva Steenkamps family listening to every word the judge said that when Oscar Pistorius decided to fire four shots through a closed toilet door he had gambled with a persons life whoever that was. 
Under South African law you cannot just shoot you first need to determine that the threat to your life is real and that there is no other way to eliminate that threat but to shoot. 
Many South Africans have applauded the courts decision on social media saying justice has now been served for Ms Steenkamp. 
This ruling is expected to go some way to show that noone is above the law not even South Africas once beloved blade runner. 
He said that the athletes life was not in danger at the time of the shooting as Pistorius did not know who was behind the door or if they posed a threat.
The judge added that Pistorius did not take that most elementary precaution of firing a warning shot.
It was earlier incorrectly reported that the court had ruled the manslaughter verdict would remain.
But Ms Steenkamps mother June was present and afterwards she was seen outside the court being embraced by members of the African National Congress Womens League who were singing songs of celebration.
Our correspondent says that many in South Africa were upset by the original acquittal on murder charges with womens rights groups arguing he should have been found guilty of murder as a deterrent because of the high number of women who are killed by their partners in the country. 
The double amputee was released from prison on October as he was eligible for release under correctional supervision having served a sixth of his sentence.
Pistorius can challenge the ruling in the constitutional court but only if his lawyers can argue that his constitutional rights have been violated. 
Legal expert Mannie Witz told the BBC that there do not appear to be any grounds for such an appeal.
Former UK PM Tony Blair says he accepts full responsibility as a sevenyear inquiry into the Iraq War says his plans for the aftermath were wholly inadequate.
A person of interest described as extremely dangerous is being sought for questioning by San Diego investigators Wednesday in connection with what they call senseless random a.
A Tennessee mother charged with fatally stabbing four of her children was taken to a mental health institute after a brief court appearance Tuesday authorities said.
A Louisiana police officer shot and killed a man during a confrontation outside a Baton Rouge convenience store authorities said in a death that prompted a protest later in the d.
A man accused of setting a fire that killed two Ohio firefighters is set to go on trial next February.
A Mississippi man has been indicted for manslaughter several weeks after his monthold daughter died in his hot car while he worked.
A Mississippi man has been indicted for manslaughter several weeks after his monthold daughter died in his hot car while he worked.
A woman accused of involvement in a group beating that killed her half brother and injured another during a New York church counseling session has been convicted of manslaughter an.
The skyrocketing violent crime thats plaguing the city of Chicago did not let up over the Fourth of July holiday.
This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed. FOX News Network LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed minutes. Privacy Terms FAQ
Olympic athlete Oscar Pistorius has been found guilty of murder after a South African appeals court overturned an earlier manslaughter verdict.
Pistorius killed his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in February after shooting four times through a locked toilet door.
He is currently under house arrest after spending one year of his original fiveyear sentence in jail.
Pistorius a sixtime Paralympic gold medallist whose legs were amputated below the knee as a baby made history by becoming the first amputee sprinter to compete at the Olympics in running on prosthetic blades.
South Africas Supreme Court of Appeal ruled that the lower court did not correctly apply the rule of dolus eventualis whether Pistorius knew that a death would be a likely result of his actions.
The minimum sentence for murder in South Africa is years but judges can apply some discretion.
South African law does not make provision for someone to be placed under house arrest for more than five years so Pistorius will be going back to prison reports the BBCs Pumza Fihlani in Johannesburg.
Yes. He will be back behind bars less than two months after he was placed under house arrest. 
We dont have a date yet but it will be next year. The minimum sentence for murder is years but the judge does have the discretion to lower it.
Yes but only if his lawyers are convinced that the appeal judges violated his constitutional rights. So its a high threshold and hard to meet. 
Almost certainly. Hes and will be past his prime by the time he is freed. It is also unlikely that advertisers would want to sponsor him as the Pistorius brand is now tainted. 
Pistorius family gave a brief response saying lawyers are studying the finding who will advise them on options going forward. 
The panel of appeal judges described the case as a human tragedy of Shakespearean proportions in their written judgement.
Reading the unanimous ruling reached by the five judges Justice Eric Leach said that having armed himself with a highcalibre weapon Pistorius must have foreseen that whoever was behind the door might die especially given his firearms training.
As a matter of common sense at the time the fatal shots were fired the possibility of the death of the person behind the door was clearly an obvious result the judge said.
Pistorius always maintained that he believed there was an intruder in the house but the judge said that the identity of the person behind the door was irrelevant to his guilt.
Justice Leach compared it to someone setting off a bomb in a public place not knowing who the victims might be.
In a packed courtroom with Reeva Steenkamps family listening to every word the judge said that when Oscar Pistorius decided to fire four shots through a closed toilet door he had gambled with a persons life whoever that was. 
Under South African law you cannot just shoot you first need to determine that the threat to your life is real and that there is no other way to eliminate that threat but to shoot. 
Many South Africans have applauded the courts decision on social media saying justice has now been served for Ms Steenkamp. 
This ruling is expected to go some way to show that noone is above the law not even South Africas once beloved blade runner. 
He said that the athletes life was not in danger at the time of the shooting as Pistorius did not know who was behind the door or if they posed a threat.
The judge added that Pistorius did not take that most elementary precaution of firing a warning shot.
It was earlier incorrectly reported that the court had ruled the manslaughter verdict would remain.
But Ms Steenkamps mother June was present and afterwards she was seen outside the court being embraced by members of the African National Congress Womens League who were singing songs of celebration.
Our correspondent says that many in South Africa were upset by the original acquittal on murder charges with womens rights groups arguing he should have been found guilty of murder as a deterrent because of the high number of women who are killed by their partners in the country. 
The double amputee was released from prison on October as he was eligible for release under correctional supervision having served a sixth of his sentence.
Pistorius can challenge the ruling in the constitutional court but only if his lawyers can argue that his constitutional rights have been violated. 
Legal expert Mannie Witz told the BBC that there do not appear to be any grounds for such an appeal.
Former UK PM Tony Blair says he accepts full responsibility as a sevenyear inquiry into the Iraq War says his plans for the aftermath were wholly inadequate.
In the UK the Home Office is responsible for the reduction and prevention of crime and oversees policing. The Ministry of Justice oversees prosecution and sentencing. For both victims and perpetrators crime can mean lives are never the same again.
Information from the Disclosure and Barring Service DBS revealed some applicants also had criminal records for false imprisonment and soliciting prostitutes
Vigin Media engineer Matthew Harding died a week after his wedding when the teen hit him and his colleague as they worked on a communications box
Ms Edkins watched on with members of Pistorius family as the former Olympic and Paralympic star was jailed for six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Ms Edkins watched on with members of Pistorius family as the former Olympic and Paralympic star was jailed for six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Derek Perry knocked out yearold Daniel Fay during a drunken struggle near a bombed out church a court heard
The court ordered Messi to pay a fine of around .million million euros and his father to pay .m . million euros
The Chilcot report has pages .million words and cost more than million. So what does it actually say
Khan who had a string of motoring convictions said at the time says he was being harassed by a fan who had been following him
Information from the Disclosure and Barring Service DBS revealed some applicants also had criminal records for false imprisonment and soliciting prostitutes
Johnson shelled out to buy the trucks and a further to repaint them in Met Police livery but they have never been fired or driven on a public road
Arsonist Bruce Lee burned victims to death including little children during a reign of terror that lasted seven years
free to view and download. They cover topics like health environment and freedom.
a free online reference database of healing foods phytonutrients and plantbased
content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under FreeSpeech. Truth Publishing International LTD. is not responsible for content writtenby contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educationaland entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional
Only films have reached the billion mark worldwide. Have you seen all of them
You must be a registered user to use the IMDb rating plugin.
A radio reporter does a story on the infidelity and divorce of a wealthy and powerful businessman. The man invites the reporter to his mansion for a chat but when he gets there he finds that the businessman has been murderedand that now he himself is on the killers hit list. Written by
Reporter solves murder Yeah its another one of those.Unlikable rich businessman Edgar Drake is murdered at his townhouse the night his wife who plans to divorce him and marry Drakes highpowered lawyer is to meet there with her son who is worried what Drake might do now that her plans were just aired on a radio program.I picked my suspect stuck with him and I was right. Its not a hard one to solve though. The third act is pretty much standard fare with all the suspects gathered together by the reporter. A series of plot conveniences clumsily scripted are then used to hold it together and make it work. Production values arent high. The story moves along briskly. The dialog isnt as bright as it is in other movies of this type like A Shriek in the Night or Murder by Invitation but I was never bored. The acting is mostly good aside from Iris Meredith who is sometimes laughably bad.John Hamilton who plays the lawyer in the love triangle is the Daily Planet reporters chief suspect. Later in life Hamilton would play Perry White the editor of another newspaper called the Daily Planet in the Adventures of Superman TV series.I watched a copy I downloaded from The Internet Archive. It was of decent quality.
Find showtimes watch trailers browse photos track your Watchlist and rate your favorite movies and TV shows on your phone or tablet
Cabinet reshuffle was like a directionless game of musical chairs said JD U leader Pavan Verma.
For a country of our size and range of issues to be addressed coordination with states and three tier institutions I think ministers is certainly not large said Naidu.
Escalating his attack on the grand old party BJP leader Dinesh Sharma said there is nothing left for the Congress in Uttar Pradesh.
Smriti Irani lost the prestigious Human Resource Development Ministry to Prakash Javadekar the lone minister promoted to Cabinet rank.
Nalin Kohli asked as to what was the value of the AAPs claims of honesty when Narendra Tomars fake degree row made headlines.
The entrylevel projects include ghat and crematoria constructionrepair river front beautification installation and repair of sewage treatment plants.
Indias infrastructure needs are estimated at USD.USD trillion over the next years offering excellent opportunities for US companies to participate in Indias development
NCP leader Majid Memon said chances of Congress winning in the UP Assembly polls are remote adding that the party is not even clear about its chief ministerial candidate.
The police had earlier filed its report in the court stating that no FIR on charges of cow slaughter and animal cruelty had been lodged against Akhlaqs family.
Born on July in Taktser China the th Dalai Lama is one of the longest serving Dalai Lamas of the Tibetan tradition of Buddhism.
Born in Calcutta on July Mookerjee served as a cabinet minister under thenprime minister Jawaharlal Nehru before quitting the Congress party and founding the Jan Sangh.
The former chief minister made the statement in Panaji while speaking at the th birthday celebration of Goa Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar.
The world famous Rath Yatra or chariot festival of Lord Jagannath will begin on Wednesday at Puri in Odisha amid tight security.
From the states that elected them to Parliament The Indian Express profiles the new Union ministers of state sworn in Tuesday.
The big deals includes Government Investment Corporations GIC acquisition of stakes in Viviana Mall and Greenko Energy and Bandhan Bank.
US defence minister Ashton Carters visit to India was a strategic handshake describing defence relationship.
The anticorruption body has asked Dikshit to suggest an appropriate place where she can meet with the investigation official to record her statement.
Let author be resurrected court says on Permumal Murugan who had declared he would give up writing following protests.
Apna Dal MP from Mirzapur Anupriya Patel and BJP MP from Chandauli Mahendra Nath Pandey were the two new faces inducted in the council of ministers from eastern UP.
A case is pending before the Allahabad High Court with Anupriya and her mother Krishna Patel both claiming to be the national president of the party.
Transport planning in India has failed to harness the enormous potential of the water transport. Kerala is no exception.
Congress said the clear message of the exercise was that hatemongers and those propagating the divisive agenda will be protected.
Congress leader Tom Vadakkan dubbed it to be a futile exercise and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should instead shift his focus on the nonperforming ministers.
Addressing a press conference after the cabinet expansion Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad saidfrom now on Calcutta High Court will be known as Kolkata HC Bombay HC as Mumbai HC and Madras HC as Chennai HC.
Soon after the meeting of the Union Cabinet Modi interacted with the newly swornin ministers where he asked them to work hard with honesty and dedication.
Grumbling that BJP took it for granted Shiv Sena said it felt hurt by the treatment meted out to it but asserted that it would not go begging for favours.
Sushil Modi slammed CM Nitish Kumars alliance government for abandoning the special agriculture cabinet.
A bench of Justices Dipak Misra and R Banumathi dismissed the petition of AAP worker Nishant Deshdipak Varma whose plea was also dismissed by the trial court and the High Court.
The SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal told a press conference that Arvind Kejriwal and his team have stooped to a very low level and sought an unconditional apology from him.
The BJP has prepared a pamphlet based on the layout of a Rs bank note bearing the photograph of CM Arvind Kejriwal and of Rs crore denomination referring to the alleged water tanker scam.
Speaking to the media Singh said I was in a meeting dont know there was a Cabinet Reshuffle. Whose Cabinet Modis he said.
This shows that the SADBJP alliance fears my party which is gaining in strength with each passing day. The Badals are hitting below the belt Kejriwal alleged.
S S Ahluwalia on Wednesday sworn in as minister at Rashtrapati Bhawan as PM Modi reshuffles and expands cabinet
A bench of comprising Justices Dipak Misra and R Banumathi said it would set a dangerous precedent if the acquitted persons are allowed to seek compensation for their wrongful arrest.
While Meghwal BJPs chief whip in Lok Sabha always wears a colourful turban RPI leader Athawale wore a navy blue headgear for the ceremony.
Athawale the head of Republican Party of India is known for his blunt remarks and popular laughterevoking speeches
BJP hopes that the former Congress MP will provide BJP with an eloquent English speaking Muslim voice
Vijay Goel was touted to be the chief minister nominee in Delhi but was sidelined in last two Assembly polls
Telangana on Tuesday said it filed a case with Cyber Crime cell against Andhra Pradesh alleging it has indulged in plagiarism.
he plan is to rebuild existing units of Type I to IV with a buildup area of around . lakh sqm with Type II to VI units with builtup area of around . lakh sqm with supporting social infrastructure facilities.
Arvind Kejriwals Personal Secretary Rajendra Kumar was arrested by CBI on Monday in a corruption case
The services of Verma be placed at the disposal of Home Ministry an order issued by Department of Personnel and Training said.
Arundhati Bhattacharya says that Brexit is a step back in the time of globalisation
Congress seeks to expand Priyanka Gandhis role in the state because of her influential personality
AAP leaders said that a series of false accusations have sprung up in past few days after the party garnered support in areas other than Delhi
The tensions between AAPled Delhi govt and BJPled Centre increased after CBI arrested Kejriwals Principal Secretary Rajendra Kumar in corruption case
The Rajya Sabha MP from Maharashtra said that he would work for development irrespective of the department alloted to him
The state government has also increased VAT to per cent from per cent on household goods with immediate effect.
The accused Rupesh Kumar Mohanani was arrested on Tuesday by Cyberabad Police.
Where does Smriti Irani come in then While these poll surveys put her popularity in single digits Congress move to introduce Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is perhaps behind the BJPs strategic move.
Thunderstorm with rain is likely to occur across the city through the day the Met office forecast said. Humidity was recorded at per cent at . am.
Ajoy Mehta visits south Mumbai Dadar Mahim orders urgent action on major junctions.
A resident of Labhpur in Birbhum district yearold Mosiruddin has admitted to having links with top ISIS leaders and the JMB through emails social networking sites and mobile phones.
Sandeep Shetty brother of the slain RTI activist says probe in this case has been compromised.
The issue of fee waiver was taken up by board member Prem Kaushik at a board meeting on Thursday.
Shah said it was a moment of pride for Gujarat that seven ministers along with the Prime Minister represent the state at the Centre.
In the second expansion of his government Prime Minister Narendra Modi Tuesday inducted new faces including three from UP. 
India is our friend and we have absolutely no problem in being called RAW agents. 
The owner of this website www.topix.com has banned the country or region your IP address is in IN from accessing this website.
Two Women Elope to Get Married But Separated by Husbands 
Cabinet reshuffle was like a directionless game of musical chairs said JD U leader Pavan Verma.
For a country of our size and range of issues to be addressed coordination with states and three tier institutions I think ministers is certainly not large said Naidu.
Escalating his attack on the grand old party BJP leader Dinesh Sharma said there is nothing left for the Congress in Uttar Pradesh.
Smriti Irani lost the prestigious Human Resource Development Ministry to Prakash Javadekar the lone minister promoted to Cabinet rank.
Nalin Kohli asked as to what was the value of the AAPs claims of honesty when Narendra Tomars fake degree row made headlines.
The entrylevel projects include ghat and crematoria constructionrepair river front beautification installation and repair of sewage treatment plants.
Indias infrastructure needs are estimated at USD.USD trillion over the next years offering excellent opportunities for US companies to participate in Indias development
NCP leader Majid Memon said chances of Congress winning in the UP Assembly polls are remote adding that the party is not even clear about its chief ministerial candidate.
The police had earlier filed its report in the court stating that no FIR on charges of cow slaughter and animal cruelty had been lodged against Akhlaqs family.
Born on July in Taktser China the th Dalai Lama is one of the longest serving Dalai Lamas of the Tibetan tradition of Buddhism.
Born in Calcutta on July Mookerjee served as a cabinet minister under thenprime minister Jawaharlal Nehru before quitting the Congress party and founding the Jan Sangh.
The former chief minister made the statement in Panaji while speaking at the th birthday celebration of Goa Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar.
The world famous Rath Yatra or chariot festival of Lord Jagannath will begin on Wednesday at Puri in Odisha amid tight security.
From the states that elected them to Parliament The Indian Express profiles the new Union ministers of state sworn in Tuesday.
The big deals includes Government Investment Corporations GIC acquisition of stakes in Viviana Mall and Greenko Energy and Bandhan Bank.
US defence minister Ashton Carters visit to India was a strategic handshake describing defence relationship.
The anticorruption body has asked Dikshit to suggest an appropriate place where she can meet with the investigation official to record her statement.
Let author be resurrected court says on Permumal Murugan who had declared he would give up writing following protests.
Apna Dal MP from Mirzapur Anupriya Patel and BJP MP from Chandauli Mahendra Nath Pandey were the two new faces inducted in the council of ministers from eastern UP.
A case is pending before the Allahabad High Court with Anupriya and her mother Krishna Patel both claiming to be the national president of the party.
Transport planning in India has failed to harness the enormous potential of the water transport. Kerala is no exception.
Congress said the clear message of the exercise was that hatemongers and those propagating the divisive agenda will be protected.
Congress leader Tom Vadakkan dubbed it to be a futile exercise and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should instead shift his focus on the nonperforming ministers.
Addressing a press conference after the cabinet expansion Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad saidfrom now on Calcutta High Court will be known as Kolkata HC Bombay HC as Mumbai HC and Madras HC as Chennai HC.
Soon after the meeting of the Union Cabinet Modi interacted with the newly swornin ministers where he asked them to work hard with honesty and dedication.
Grumbling that BJP took it for granted Shiv Sena said it felt hurt by the treatment meted out to it but asserted that it would not go begging for favours.
Sushil Modi slammed CM Nitish Kumars alliance government for abandoning the special agriculture cabinet.
A bench of Justices Dipak Misra and R Banumathi dismissed the petition of AAP worker Nishant Deshdipak Varma whose plea was also dismissed by the trial court and the High Court.
The SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal told a press conference that Arvind Kejriwal and his team have stooped to a very low level and sought an unconditional apology from him.
The BJP has prepared a pamphlet based on the layout of a Rs bank note bearing the photograph of CM Arvind Kejriwal and of Rs crore denomination referring to the alleged water tanker scam.
Speaking to the media Singh said I was in a meeting dont know there was a Cabinet Reshuffle. Whose Cabinet Modis he said.
This shows that the SADBJP alliance fears my party which is gaining in strength with each passing day. The Badals are hitting below the belt Kejriwal alleged.
S S Ahluwalia on Wednesday sworn in as minister at Rashtrapati Bhawan as PM Modi reshuffles and expands cabinet
A bench of comprising Justices Dipak Misra and R Banumathi said it would set a dangerous precedent if the acquitted persons are allowed to seek compensation for their wrongful arrest.
While Meghwal BJPs chief whip in Lok Sabha always wears a colourful turban RPI leader Athawale wore a navy blue headgear for the ceremony.
Athawale the head of Republican Party of India is known for his blunt remarks and popular laughterevoking speeches
BJP hopes that the former Congress MP will provide BJP with an eloquent English speaking Muslim voice
Vijay Goel was touted to be the chief minister nominee in Delhi but was sidelined in last two Assembly polls
Telangana on Tuesday said it filed a case with Cyber Crime cell against Andhra Pradesh alleging it has indulged in plagiarism.
he plan is to rebuild existing units of Type I to IV with a buildup area of around . lakh sqm with Type II to VI units with builtup area of around . lakh sqm with supporting social infrastructure facilities.
Arvind Kejriwals Personal Secretary Rajendra Kumar was arrested by CBI on Monday in a corruption case
The services of Verma be placed at the disposal of Home Ministry an order issued by Department of Personnel and Training said.
Arundhati Bhattacharya says that Brexit is a step back in the time of globalisation
Congress seeks to expand Priyanka Gandhis role in the state because of her influential personality
AAP leaders said that a series of false accusations have sprung up in past few days after the party garnered support in areas other than Delhi
The tensions between AAPled Delhi govt and BJPled Centre increased after CBI arrested Kejriwals Principal Secretary Rajendra Kumar in corruption case
The Rajya Sabha MP from Maharashtra said that he would work for development irrespective of the department alloted to him
The state government has also increased VAT to per cent from per cent on household goods with immediate effect.
The accused Rupesh Kumar Mohanani was arrested on Tuesday by Cyberabad Police.
Where does Smriti Irani come in then While these poll surveys put her popularity in single digits Congress move to introduce Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is perhaps behind the BJPs strategic move.
Thunderstorm with rain is likely to occur across the city through the day the Met office forecast said. Humidity was recorded at per cent at . am.
Ajoy Mehta visits south Mumbai Dadar Mahim orders urgent action on major junctions.
A resident of Labhpur in Birbhum district yearold Mosiruddin has admitted to having links with top ISIS leaders and the JMB through emails social networking sites and mobile phones.
Sandeep Shetty brother of the slain RTI activist says probe in this case has been compromised.
The issue of fee waiver was taken up by board member Prem Kaushik at a board meeting on Thursday.
Shah said it was a moment of pride for Gujarat that seven ministers along with the Prime Minister represent the state at the Centre.
In the second expansion of his government Prime Minister Narendra Modi Tuesday inducted new faces including three from UP. 
India is our friend and we have absolutely no problem in being called RAW agents. 
Focused reports on events business and lifestyle. In depth insightful influential.
Indepth look at issues behind the news with sections on people books and art.
A weekly motoring magazine packed with the latest local and global motoring news reviews and views.
Oceans are some of the largest museums on earth that need to be explored said Dr Robert D. Ballard at Mohammad Bin Zayeds majlis
Municipalitys joint campaign with other departments catches men and women breaking laws
Shaikh Mohammeds book Flashes of Thought gifted to travellers by GDRFA on occasion of Eid
Worshippers gather for early morning prayer and sermon families gather in homes for Eid feasts and friendship
The centre located in Pavillon de lHorloge pays tribute to the UAEs founding father
Crown princes shaikhs and top officials join the leaders in offering Eid Al Fitr prayers
Good job done by the authorities to clamp down on beggars. However whatabout people who are not co. 
Hussain you are great man. There are so much good people in Pakistan. Ilove Pakistani brothers for. 
GulfNews.com is the most widely read newspaper and online site in English in the Middle East. With a daily BPA audited paid circulation of over and an online audience of . million uniques every month it is your go to source for information on the region. Sign up below to begin personalising your experience
A Park Manorneighborhood man has been identified as the person killed last week in a fatal shooting on the Near North Side in the citys Old Town neighborhood.
The shooting happened shortly after p.m June in the block of North Clark Street. According to reports a person drove up got out a vehicle and shot a yearold man several times before fleeing police said.
Hole in One Prove it A HoleInOne golf tournament was conducted at a national level across the country in three major golf courses recently. The winner would take home a brand new Mercedes Benz car. After the competition an objection was raised. Some felt that that the winner did not possess the skills to put the ball straight into the hole in one go. More 
Sorting the lies from the truth Did the daughterinlaw seduce her fatherinlaw When two sides tell two opposite stories it often become difficult to ascertain which side can be believed. One such case brought before the Truth Labs involves the family of a rich Mumbaibased industrialist. More
A shooting involving a California Highway Patrol officer in Fullerton on Sunday night left one man dead and another hospitalized.
A shooting involving a California Highway Patrol officer in Fullerton on Sunday night left one man dead and another hospitalized.
When two undercover California Highway Patrol officers opened fire on a moving vehicle in Fullerton this weekend they used a tactic that federal authorities and law enforcement experts considerdangerous and has been bannedby police leaders in Los Angeles New York and several other major U.S..
For the second time in less than months Gov. Jerry Brown has rejected parole for a convicted killer and former shotcaller for the Mexican Mafia who developed an unusually close relationship with law enforcement. On Thursday Brown reversed a February decision by a state parole board to free.
Seven counterprotesters have been charged with attacking members of the Ku Klux Klan during a socalled rally that turned into a bloody melee in Anaheim earlier this year prosecutors said Thursday. The demonstrators were all charged with misdemeanor assault or batteryor resisting arrestaccording.
Former Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca is in the early stages of Alzheimers disease but he nonetheless should serve time in prison for lying to federal investigators during a probe into jail abuses by sheriffs deputies the U.S. attorneys office has concluded. In a court filing released.
An Oceanside woman was charged Wednesday with gross vehicular manslaughter while drunkafter she plowed into a pedestrian and then drovea mile with hisbody lodged in the passenger seat according to prosecutors. Along with manslaughterEsteysi Sanchezalso faces chargesfor hit and run resulting.
Homicide investigators were looking for answers after two women and a teenage girl were found dead in an upscale home in Rancho Santa Fe on Tuesday. The names of the dead were not released but the man who sold the house to Michael Ayra about months ago said Ayra recently died and his girlfriend.
New sheriffs deputies who perform poorly on the job during their first year are not being weeded out leaving them to potentially cause problems years down the road in lifeordeath situations according to a report by the Los Angeles County Sheriffs Departments inspector general. Of trainees.
Illegal street racing may have led to a violent crash on Ventura Boulevard on Saturday that left three people dead and four others injured. Los Angeles police investigators continue to scour evidence taken from the deadly collision that occurredabout p.m. inthe block of Ventura Boulevard.
A series of violent clashes this weekend involving neoNazis permitted to rally at the state Capitol was initiated not by the white nationalist group but by counterprotesters a law enforcement official said Monday. If I had to say who started it and who didnt Id say the permitted group didnt.
One of two Los Angeles County sheriffs deputiesshot by a gunmanduring a wild foot chase across a residential neighborhood in Bellflower has been released from the hospital officials said Sunday. The other deputy is recovering fromsurgery andremains in serious condition but officials say.
Cleanup efforts continued Friday after a leaky pipeline valve spilled almost gallons of crude oil into a gorgein Ventura. Up to barrels of crudebled Thursday into Prince Barranca a gorge that typically fills with water during storms. Officials could not provide a timetable for the.
Long Beach will pay nearly million tothe family of an unarmed man who was shot times during a fatal clash with police in . On Wednesday a federal court jury awarded . million to the parents of Tyler Woods who was shot while fleeing Long Beach police officers after he was detainedin.
On a February night years ago Michelle OKeefe got into her blue Mustang at a parking lot in Palmdale after spending the day working as an extra on a Kid Rock video in Los Angeles. Suddenly shots rang out and the Antelope Valley College studentwas dead. Police later arrested Raymond Lee.
The attorney for convicted double murderer Daniel Wozniak does not need to be given any more information about Orange County Sheriffs Department deputies use of jailhouse informants a judge has ruled calling the issue a dead end. Wozniak was convicted in December of killing yearold Irvine.
A high school cheerleader has been charged in connection with the beating death of a homeless man in San Diego County officials said. Hailey Suder pleaded not guilty Monday to two felony counts of being an accessory after the fact according to Tanya Sierra spokeswoman for the San Diego.
A Redondo Beach woman was sentenced Tuesday after pleading no contest to driving her car into a crowd of people leaving a Christmas concert killing four including a yearold boy. After entering her plea Judge Laura Priver sentenced Margo Bronstein to three years and four months in custody.
Joshua Waring son of former Real Housewives of Orange County star Lauri Peterson was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder in the shooting of a man in Costa Mesa early Monday authorities said. The arrest occurred hours after the shooting following a police chase in Santa Ana according.
An Orange County woman was sentenced Monday to four months in prison for running a fraudulent marriage and visa business with her family an enterprise that prosecutors contended netted up to per phony marriage for mostly Indian citizens who wished to stay in the U.S. Nisha Bhargava of.
After years of watching the supply of affordable housing plummet evictions and demolitions surge and landlords score quick profits with shortterm rentals Los Angeles officials are striking back. For the first time the city attorneys office has filed criminal charges alleging that a buildings.
Santa Ana police have identified a suspect they say fatally stabbed a man at a home then stabbed and kidnapped a woman from the residence. The Santa Ana Police Department said Teodoro Bernal Nunez was arrested in the city of Brea after officers pulled him over for a traffic violation and.
A slender young woman with brown hair stoodon a Commerce street in early March ignoring a drivers pleas to move. She reached down and bent his front license plate asked him for money and then yanked his windshield wiper off. She appeared agitated from drugs mental illness or both. AsLos.
A Honduran citizen charged with murderingfive homeless people in an arson fire was in the United States illegally and had been arrested three times in the months before the blaze in a vacant Westlake building wheretransients weresquatting officials said Friday. Johnny Josue Sanchez started.
The former head of the Republican Partyof Los Angeles County has been ordered to avoid contact with juveniles for the next months as part of a plea bargain with county prosecutors in a case involving the distribution of pornography officials said. Scott Hounsell was initiallycharged with.
Prosecutors filed new charges Friday against a former finance manager accused of embezzling . million from the city of Placentia. Michael Minh Nguyen is charged with an additional felony counts of misappropriation of public funds felony counts of money laundering one felony count.
Nearly years afterGilbert Rubio wassentenced to death for killing a popular high school vice principal in Downey the condemned man diedThursday at San Quentin State Prison. Rubio was discovered unresponsive in his onepersoncell during a security check and pronounced dead in a medical.
A group of methamphetaminedealing gang members armed with rifles shotguns and at least one rocket launcher was taken down in a predawn operation Thursday morning in the Coachella Valley officials said. Participating in what was dubbed Operation Desert Impact agents from the Bureau of Alcohol.
Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department investigatorsare trying to learn the identity of a woman who placed a toddler in a burning SUV and then entered the vehicle herself before both were burned to deathin Willowbrook on Thursday night. Witnesses reported seeing the woman and child standing.
They were strangers federal investigators said hired by a mastermind to plan a series of heists targeting jewelry stores in Southern California. Theystormed in smashed glass display caseswith hammers and lifted million in Rolex and other luxury Swiss watches. It had the makings of a classic.
For the second time in two years Riverside County prosecutors want to put two men on trial for the deaths of a teenager her mother and her mothers boyfriend in Pinyon Pines. Robert Lars Pape and Cristin Conrad Smith were charged Wednesday with three counts of murder and a special circumstance.
A yearold man is facing a string of felony charges including murder assault and torture after a breakin at a Del Cerro home where two women were held at knifepoint. Eduardo Jose Torres is accused of holding the two women hostage sexually assaulting one of them and fatally stabbing the.
A formerLos Angeles County sheriffs deputy at the center of the jail scandal that rocked the department and led to the conviction ofagency officials including the former sheriff was sentenced Monday to six months in federal prison. Gilbert Michel was the first to be charged in the wideranging.
Oakland officials expressed outrage Saturday over news reports detailing allegations of misconduct by officers of the citys longtroubled Police Department whose chief abruptly resigned this week. Sean Whent stepped down Thursday after leading the department for three years calling the move.
The California Coastal Commission on Fridaythreatened legal actionto force Palos Verdes Estatesto improve public access at Lunada Bay the site of one of the states best surf breaksas well as a group ofaggressively territorial surfers widely known as the Bay Boyswho aim to keep outsiders.
A massive gang sweep in Riverside County resulted in the arrest of people Thursdayand the seizure of almost .million worth of drugs according to authorities. The raids targeted suspected members of theCorona Varrio Locosand the Mexican Mafia according to police and came in response.
A transgender woman was shot early Friday by an unidentified suspect in Santa Ana. The woman described as being in her s or s by Santa Ana Police Department Cmdr. Jose Gonzalez was at Harbor Blvd. when she was shot in the back. After the shooting occurred she walked to a nearby gas.
A transgender woman was shot early Friday by an unidentified suspect in Santa Ana. The woman described as being in her s or s by Santa Ana Police Department Cmdr. Jose Gonzalez was at Harbor Blvd. when she was shot in the back. After the shooting occurred she walked to a nearby gas.
Dennis Oland was sentenced in February to life in prison without chance of parole for years. Continue reading
South African Olympic runner Oscar Pistorius has been sentenced to six years in prison for the murder of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on Valentines Day . Continue reading
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
The grandfather of a sixweekold boy killed in Saskatoon over the long weekend says they didnt know the teen now charged with seconddegree murder in his death. Continue reading
A teen charged with seconddegree murder in the death of a baby boy in Saskatoon had escaped custody the day before. Continue reading
A yearold girl accused of murdering an infant boy in Saskatoon was previously charged and convicted in for four separate incidents from that year. Continue reading
The mother of four children who authorities say were fatally stabbed in a suburban Memphis apartment complex has been charged in their deaths. Continue reading
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News editorial staff.
The Crown will be allowed to use evidence gathered through a controversial law enforcement tactic in the trial of an Edmonton man accused of killing his girlfriend a judge has ruled.
Devin Hall has been found guilty for a fatal shooting inside a Salisbury House restaurant nearly four years ago. Continue reading
A Michigan prosecutor is debating whether to include a parrots testimony in a murder trial after the victims family claims the bird recorded the mans final moments. Continue reading
Three years after Rachel Pernosky disappeared her estranged halfbrother has been charged with seconddegree murder in her death.
The owner of this website www.topix.com has banned the country or region your IP address is in IN from accessing this website.
Domestic worker Emily Mchunu accused of conspiring to murder her employer and her coaccused boyfriend Joshua Nxumalo .
The mother and the grandmother of the little Jamie who died from abuse allegedly at the hands of relatives were brought .
The mom of an alleged Cape hitman linked to four murders said he is no killer but a rapper with a message of peace for the youth. VIDEO.
Victim Glen Maliwa described the chaotic scene of the bus crash on the M south just after the M split in Newtown.
The Hawks are probing whether a yearold man nabbed in Sea Point could be a contract killer responsible for several murders and attempted murders.
MEC Panyaza Lesufi is facing charges of assault intimidation and incitement of violence and harm after he posted a pic .
Domestic worker Emily Mchunu accused of conspiring to murder her employer and her coaccused boyfriend Joshua Nxumalo .
The mother and the grandmother of the little Jamie who died from abuse allegedly at the hands of relatives were brought .
The mom of an alleged Cape hitman linked to four murders said he is no killer but a rapper with a message of peace for the youth. VIDEO.
Victim Glen Maliwa described the chaotic scene of the bus crash on the M south just after the M split in Newtown.
The Hawks are probing whether a yearold man nabbed in Sea Point could be a contract killer responsible for several murders and attempted murders.
MEC Panyaza Lesufi is facing charges of assault intimidation and incitement of violence and harm after he posted a pic .
JMPD have launched a manhunt for the driver of the bus that collided with another car on the M leaving more than passengers injured.
Paul OSullivan has claimed he was forced to breach the Citizenship Act because he needed to travel under the radar to .
The R between Johannesburg and the Vaal was barricaded by protesters with debris and burning tyres placed along the RandVaal interchange.
It is expected that convicted murderer Oscar Pistorius will be back in prison this week but the question is for how long.
Opportunistic thieves were caught on camera casually opening the canopy of a bakkie that stopped at a traffic light before making off with goods.
Bewildered pupils at a Joburg Catholic school allegedly ran out of a school hall screaming and crying when a mom of one of .
The suspect that was alleged to be wheelchairbound suddenly stood up and grabbed the cash box before they all fled the scene..
A Sydnham family watched in horror as a group of men smashed their doors and ripped the roof off their home.
A couple are fighting for their lives in hospital after being shot in their car outside a block of flats in Wentworth Durban.
A Barcelona court on Wednesday gave Lionel Messi and his father suspended sentences of months in prison for tax fraud.
New numbers released by the Albuquerque Police Department show an approximately percent increase in property crime and percent increas
The District Attorney said Tuesday that yearold Nicholas GonzalesVillasenor has pleaded guilty to charges in connection to the murder o
On Saturday and Sunday over the holiday weekend the Albuquerque illegal fireworks hotline line received nearly reports. Most of them ca
A man is behind bars Sunday after allegedly carjacking a vehicle from two teenage girls and leading Albuquerque police on a highspeed chase
A repeat drunk driver whos been on the news before is the subject of another story.
A repeat criminal is accused of breaking into a vehicle but the driver wasnt going to let him get away with it.
A California couple visiting Albuquerque for a national tour to show off a oneofakind model Tspeedster woke up this morning and it was g
An update look at how Albuquerque Police is handling its reforms has raised a major question in how the department looks at its own useoff
A former Roswell Police Officer is sitting behind bars accused of holding up a restaurant Tuesday night and you might remember her name
New Mexico State Police have identified the suspect who was shot and killed on Laguna Pueblo during an officerinvolved shooting on Monday.
Its going to be another hot day across New Mexico. The triple digit heat will expand as far north as Clayton this afternoon while the sout
LIN Television Corporation a Media General company. All rights reserved
Hole in One Prove it A HoleInOne golf tournament was conducted at a national level across the country in three major golf courses recently. The winner would take home a brand new Mercedes Benz car. After the competition an objection was raised. Some felt that that the winner did not possess the skills to put the ball straight into the hole in one go. More 
Sorting the lies from the truth Did the daughterinlaw seduce her fatherinlaw When two sides tell two opposite stories it often become difficult to ascertain which side can be believed. One such case brought before the Truth Labs involves the family of a rich Mumbaibased industrialist. More
A Chesterfield County man has been charged with sexually abusing two girls ages and . His behavior so alarmed the parents of a third girl that they obtained an emergency protective order to keep him away from their daughter.
A man suspected of sexual assault faces multiple charges after authorities said he stole a landscaping truck Tuesday morning in Dinwiddie County and fled officers before crashing on Interstate in Petersburg sparking a fire that shut down the interstate for several hours.
A second inmate in the Richmond City Justice Center has been charged with drug possession in as many weeks.
Judge Roger L. Gregory the former law partner of L. Douglas Wilder will take over as chief judge of the Richmondbased th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Saturday.
When a Falls Church man threw what appeared to be two incendiary devices over the gate of the DarHijrah Islamic Center in Northern Virginia last fall police concluded it was a hate crime directed against Muslims at the mosque.
A Richmond woman has been arrested in connection with a June shooting in Highland Park.
Richmond police have identified a Chesterfield County man who was killed in a South Richmond neighborhood Friday.
Police are searching for a yearold woman they say seriously injured a man in a June shooting in Highland Park.
Hundreds of seniors and disabled Social Security recipients flocked to the federal agencys West Cary Street office on Friday for their monthly checks after a Richmondbased payee service suddenly closed leaving many without access to their accounts.
Its the craziest thing Ive seen in years said Petersburg police Capt. Brian Braswell.
Three Florida men have been charged after a pursuit that ended in a crash in Caroline County on Thursday night police said Friday.
A man found dead this afternoon at the City Motel on Richmonds South Side has been identified according to police.
A Chesterfield County man has pleaded guilty to stealing more than in government property from to .
A Mexican national caught May with more than pounds of cocaine in his vehicle intended for sale to a DEA cooperating source pleaded guilty in federal court Friday.
Richmond police have arrested a yearold man in connection with a shooting in the Gilpin Court public housing complex during daytime hours Wednesday.
Police departments across the region are reminding residents of the dangers of celebratory gunfire as Independence Day draws closer.
A Chesterfield County woman charged in a federal bank fraud case allegedly stole more than from the medical practice where she worked.
Henrico County police are searching for two people who fled Thursday after crashing a stolen vehicle into a tree in the western part of the county.
Sixtythree of dogs were adopted in Hanover County on Wednesday after having been seized from Stephanie Saunders a yearold Montpelier resident convicted of animal cruelty.
The Chesterfield County Police Department are looking for a man who they believe robbed a Eleven early Thursday morning.
Petersburg police are investigating whether a body found Wednesday night is that of a man who was inside a vehicle that police pursued a day earlier before it crashed off Interstate .
A Petersburg drug dealer was sentenced Tuesday to more than two decades behind bars for killing a former Chesterfield County firefighter who fell prey to drug abuse and was shot dead at a motel during a dispute over crack cocaine.
It could be months or even next year before former Gov. Bob McDonnell learns whether he can or will be tried again in light of Mondays U.S. Supreme Court decision overturning his corruption convictions.
A Hanover County teacher and soccer coach has been charged with molesting a girl who attends a day care facility that his wife operates out of their Chesterfield County home.
A Richmond City Council member lambasted Police Chief Alfred Durham on Tuesday for what she described as a lack of police presence in her district more than a month after the council approved a budget that allocated money for additional officers a stopgap for the more than officers that Durham says he needs.
Research homicides in Richmond and Central Virginia from January to the present.
Were always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know whats going on
Richmond TimesDispatch Richmond VA BH Media Group Inc. Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. Terms of Use
Log in to read an unlimited number of articles each month on Richmond.com and to read The TimesDispatch eedition. To log in enter the email address and password listed on your All Access account. Trying to pay a bill place a vacation stop or manage your account Click here.
Feds motion for statewide jury pool to protect from late venue change in Dylann Roof trial
Officers respond to pair of shootings in Charleston area as holiday weekend kicks off
WCIV ABC News Charleston South Carolina provides coverage of local and national news sports weather and community events in the region including North Charleston Mt Pleasant Summerville Hanahan Goose Creek Rantowles Cottageville St George Moncks Corner Jacksonboro Ravenel Cottageville Walterboro Sullivans Island Dewees Island and Folly Beach.
The U.S. Justice Department on Wednesday opened a civil rights investigation into the death of a black man who was shot by a police officer outside a Baton Rouge convenience store .
The comedic actor who played grayhaired grandma Dona Concha on Univisions Sabado Gigante has been sentenced to years in prison for possessing child pornography.
A person of interest described as extremely dangerous is being sought for questioning by San Diego investigators Wednesday in connection with what they call senseless random a.
A Union University student has pleaded not guilty after being accused of soliciting four minors for sexual activity while he was working as a youth ministry intern at a Jackson chu.
Police say detectives monitoring social media over the holiday weekend watched a live video of two men throwing fireworks at dogs chained in a backyard in South Carolina.
Coal industry groups are concerned that the conviction of former coal executive Don Blankenship could expose other industry leaders to criminal conspiracy charges.
A former Vanderbilt University football player convicted of encouraging his teammates to rape an unconscious woman in is facing a minimum of years in prison when he is sent.
The death of a yearold Navy SEAL trainee in California was ruled a homicide by drowning San Diego medical examiners revealed Wednesday in a development that could lead to char.
A Tennessee mother charged with fatally stabbing four of her children was taken to a mental health institute after a brief court appearance Tuesday authorities said.
A man was arrested in central Florida after authorities say he stole an ambulance.
This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed. FOX News Network LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed minutes. Privacy Terms FAQ
A person of interest described as extremely dangerous is being sought for questioning by San Diego investigators Wednesday in connection with what they call senseless random a.
A Tennessee mother charged with fatally stabbing four of her children was taken to a mental health institute after a brief court appearance Tuesday authorities said.
A Louisiana police officer shot and killed a man during a confrontation outside a Baton Rouge convenience store authorities said in a death that prompted a protest later in the d.
A man accused of setting a fire that killed two Ohio firefighters is set to go on trial next February.
A Mississippi man has been indicted for manslaughter several weeks after his monthold daughter died in his hot car while he worked.
A Mississippi man has been indicted for manslaughter several weeks after his monthold daughter died in his hot car while he worked.
A woman accused of involvement in a group beating that killed her half brother and injured another during a New York church counseling session has been convicted of manslaughter an.
The skyrocketing violent crime thats plaguing the city of Chicago did not let up over the Fourth of July holiday.
This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed. FOX News Network LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed minutes. Privacy Terms FAQ
A Chesterfield County man has been charged with sexually abusing two girls ages and . His behavior so alarmed the parents of a third girl that they obtained an emergency protective order to keep him away from their daughter.
A man suspected of sexual assault faces multiple charges after authorities said he stole a landscaping truck Tuesday morning in Dinwiddie County and fled officers before crashing on Interstate in Petersburg sparking a fire that shut down the interstate for several hours.
A second inmate in the Richmond City Justice Center has been charged with drug possession in as many weeks.
Judge Roger L. Gregory the former law partner of L. Douglas Wilder will take over as chief judge of the Richmondbased th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Saturday.
When a Falls Church man threw what appeared to be two incendiary devices over the gate of the DarHijrah Islamic Center in Northern Virginia last fall police concluded it was a hate crime directed against Muslims at the mosque.
A Richmond woman has been arrested in connection with a June shooting in Highland Park.
Richmond police have identified a Chesterfield County man who was killed in a South Richmond neighborhood Friday.
Police are searching for a yearold woman they say seriously injured a man in a June shooting in Highland Park.
Hundreds of seniors and disabled Social Security recipients flocked to the federal agencys West Cary Street office on Friday for their monthly checks after a Richmondbased payee service suddenly closed leaving many without access to their accounts.
Its the craziest thing Ive seen in years said Petersburg police Capt. Brian Braswell.
Three Florida men have been charged after a pursuit that ended in a crash in Caroline County on Thursday night police said Friday.
A man found dead this afternoon at the City Motel on Richmonds South Side has been identified according to police.
A Chesterfield County man has pleaded guilty to stealing more than in government property from to .
A Mexican national caught May with more than pounds of cocaine in his vehicle intended for sale to a DEA cooperating source pleaded guilty in federal court Friday.
Richmond police have arrested a yearold man in connection with a shooting in the Gilpin Court public housing complex during daytime hours Wednesday.
Police departments across the region are reminding residents of the dangers of celebratory gunfire as Independence Day draws closer.
A Chesterfield County woman charged in a federal bank fraud case allegedly stole more than from the medical practice where she worked.
Henrico County police are searching for two people who fled Thursday after crashing a stolen vehicle into a tree in the western part of the county.
Sixtythree of dogs were adopted in Hanover County on Wednesday after having been seized from Stephanie Saunders a yearold Montpelier resident convicted of animal cruelty.
The Chesterfield County Police Department are looking for a man who they believe robbed a Eleven early Thursday morning.
Petersburg police are investigating whether a body found Wednesday night is that of a man who was inside a vehicle that police pursued a day earlier before it crashed off Interstate .
A Petersburg drug dealer was sentenced Tuesday to more than two decades behind bars for killing a former Chesterfield County firefighter who fell prey to drug abuse and was shot dead at a motel during a dispute over crack cocaine.
It could be months or even next year before former Gov. Bob McDonnell learns whether he can or will be tried again in light of Mondays U.S. Supreme Court decision overturning his corruption convictions.
A Hanover County teacher and soccer coach has been charged with molesting a girl who attends a day care facility that his wife operates out of their Chesterfield County home.
A Richmond City Council member lambasted Police Chief Alfred Durham on Tuesday for what she described as a lack of police presence in her district more than a month after the council approved a budget that allocated money for additional officers a stopgap for the more than officers that Durham says he needs.
Research homicides in Richmond and Central Virginia from January to the present.
Were always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know whats going on
Richmond TimesDispatch Richmond VA BH Media Group Inc. Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. Terms of Use
Log in to read an unlimited number of articles each month on Richmond.com and to read The TimesDispatch eedition. To log in enter the email address and password listed on your All Access account. Trying to pay a bill place a vacation stop or manage your account Click here.
A shooting involving a California Highway Patrol officer in Fullerton on Sunday night left one man dead and another hospitalized.
A shooting involving a California Highway Patrol officer in Fullerton on Sunday night left one man dead and another hospitalized.
When two undercover California Highway Patrol officers opened fire on a moving vehicle in Fullerton this weekend they used a tactic that federal authorities and law enforcement experts considerdangerous and has been bannedby police leaders in Los Angeles New York and several other major U.S..
For the second time in less than months Gov. Jerry Brown has rejected parole for a convicted killer and former shotcaller for the Mexican Mafia who developed an unusually close relationship with law enforcement. On Thursday Brown reversed a February decision by a state parole board to free.
Seven counterprotesters have been charged with attacking members of the Ku Klux Klan during a socalled rally that turned into a bloody melee in Anaheim earlier this year prosecutors said Thursday. The demonstrators were all charged with misdemeanor assault or batteryor resisting arrestaccording.
Former Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca is in the early stages of Alzheimers disease but he nonetheless should serve time in prison for lying to federal investigators during a probe into jail abuses by sheriffs deputies the U.S. attorneys office has concluded. In a court filing released.
An Oceanside woman was charged Wednesday with gross vehicular manslaughter while drunkafter she plowed into a pedestrian and then drovea mile with hisbody lodged in the passenger seat according to prosecutors. Along with manslaughterEsteysi Sanchezalso faces chargesfor hit and run resulting.
Homicide investigators were looking for answers after two women and a teenage girl were found dead in an upscale home in Rancho Santa Fe on Tuesday. The names of the dead were not released but the man who sold the house to Michael Ayra about months ago said Ayra recently died and his girlfriend.
New sheriffs deputies who perform poorly on the job during their first year are not being weeded out leaving them to potentially cause problems years down the road in lifeordeath situations according to a report by the Los Angeles County Sheriffs Departments inspector general. Of trainees.
Illegal street racing may have led to a violent crash on Ventura Boulevard on Saturday that left three people dead and four others injured. Los Angeles police investigators continue to scour evidence taken from the deadly collision that occurredabout p.m. inthe block of Ventura Boulevard.
A series of violent clashes this weekend involving neoNazis permitted to rally at the state Capitol was initiated not by the white nationalist group but by counterprotesters a law enforcement official said Monday. If I had to say who started it and who didnt Id say the permitted group didnt.
One of two Los Angeles County sheriffs deputiesshot by a gunmanduring a wild foot chase across a residential neighborhood in Bellflower has been released from the hospital officials said Sunday. The other deputy is recovering fromsurgery andremains in serious condition but officials say.
Cleanup efforts continued Friday after a leaky pipeline valve spilled almost gallons of crude oil into a gorgein Ventura. Up to barrels of crudebled Thursday into Prince Barranca a gorge that typically fills with water during storms. Officials could not provide a timetable for the.
Long Beach will pay nearly million tothe family of an unarmed man who was shot times during a fatal clash with police in . On Wednesday a federal court jury awarded . million to the parents of Tyler Woods who was shot while fleeing Long Beach police officers after he was detainedin.
On a February night years ago Michelle OKeefe got into her blue Mustang at a parking lot in Palmdale after spending the day working as an extra on a Kid Rock video in Los Angeles. Suddenly shots rang out and the Antelope Valley College studentwas dead. Police later arrested Raymond Lee.
The attorney for convicted double murderer Daniel Wozniak does not need to be given any more information about Orange County Sheriffs Department deputies use of jailhouse informants a judge has ruled calling the issue a dead end. Wozniak was convicted in December of killing yearold Irvine.
A high school cheerleader has been charged in connection with the beating death of a homeless man in San Diego County officials said. Hailey Suder pleaded not guilty Monday to two felony counts of being an accessory after the fact according to Tanya Sierra spokeswoman for the San Diego.
A Redondo Beach woman was sentenced Tuesday after pleading no contest to driving her car into a crowd of people leaving a Christmas concert killing four including a yearold boy. After entering her plea Judge Laura Priver sentenced Margo Bronstein to three years and four months in custody.
Joshua Waring son of former Real Housewives of Orange County star Lauri Peterson was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder in the shooting of a man in Costa Mesa early Monday authorities said. The arrest occurred hours after the shooting following a police chase in Santa Ana according.
An Orange County woman was sentenced Monday to four months in prison for running a fraudulent marriage and visa business with her family an enterprise that prosecutors contended netted up to per phony marriage for mostly Indian citizens who wished to stay in the U.S. Nisha Bhargava of.
After years of watching the supply of affordable housing plummet evictions and demolitions surge and landlords score quick profits with shortterm rentals Los Angeles officials are striking back. For the first time the city attorneys office has filed criminal charges alleging that a buildings.
Santa Ana police have identified a suspect they say fatally stabbed a man at a home then stabbed and kidnapped a woman from the residence. The Santa Ana Police Department said Teodoro Bernal Nunez was arrested in the city of Brea after officers pulled him over for a traffic violation and.
A slender young woman with brown hair stoodon a Commerce street in early March ignoring a drivers pleas to move. She reached down and bent his front license plate asked him for money and then yanked his windshield wiper off. She appeared agitated from drugs mental illness or both. AsLos.
A Honduran citizen charged with murderingfive homeless people in an arson fire was in the United States illegally and had been arrested three times in the months before the blaze in a vacant Westlake building wheretransients weresquatting officials said Friday. Johnny Josue Sanchez started.
The former head of the Republican Partyof Los Angeles County has been ordered to avoid contact with juveniles for the next months as part of a plea bargain with county prosecutors in a case involving the distribution of pornography officials said. Scott Hounsell was initiallycharged with.
Prosecutors filed new charges Friday against a former finance manager accused of embezzling . million from the city of Placentia. Michael Minh Nguyen is charged with an additional felony counts of misappropriation of public funds felony counts of money laundering one felony count.
Nearly years afterGilbert Rubio wassentenced to death for killing a popular high school vice principal in Downey the condemned man diedThursday at San Quentin State Prison. Rubio was discovered unresponsive in his onepersoncell during a security check and pronounced dead in a medical.
A group of methamphetaminedealing gang members armed with rifles shotguns and at least one rocket launcher was taken down in a predawn operation Thursday morning in the Coachella Valley officials said. Participating in what was dubbed Operation Desert Impact agents from the Bureau of Alcohol.
Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department investigatorsare trying to learn the identity of a woman who placed a toddler in a burning SUV and then entered the vehicle herself before both were burned to deathin Willowbrook on Thursday night. Witnesses reported seeing the woman and child standing.
They were strangers federal investigators said hired by a mastermind to plan a series of heists targeting jewelry stores in Southern California. Theystormed in smashed glass display caseswith hammers and lifted million in Rolex and other luxury Swiss watches. It had the makings of a classic.
For the second time in two years Riverside County prosecutors want to put two men on trial for the deaths of a teenager her mother and her mothers boyfriend in Pinyon Pines. Robert Lars Pape and Cristin Conrad Smith were charged Wednesday with three counts of murder and a special circumstance.
A yearold man is facing a string of felony charges including murder assault and torture after a breakin at a Del Cerro home where two women were held at knifepoint. Eduardo Jose Torres is accused of holding the two women hostage sexually assaulting one of them and fatally stabbing the.
A formerLos Angeles County sheriffs deputy at the center of the jail scandal that rocked the department and led to the conviction ofagency officials including the former sheriff was sentenced Monday to six months in federal prison. Gilbert Michel was the first to be charged in the wideranging.
Oakland officials expressed outrage Saturday over news reports detailing allegations of misconduct by officers of the citys longtroubled Police Department whose chief abruptly resigned this week. Sean Whent stepped down Thursday after leading the department for three years calling the move.
The California Coastal Commission on Fridaythreatened legal actionto force Palos Verdes Estatesto improve public access at Lunada Bay the site of one of the states best surf breaksas well as a group ofaggressively territorial surfers widely known as the Bay Boyswho aim to keep outsiders.
A massive gang sweep in Riverside County resulted in the arrest of people Thursdayand the seizure of almost .million worth of drugs according to authorities. The raids targeted suspected members of theCorona Varrio Locosand the Mexican Mafia according to police and came in response.
A transgender woman was shot early Friday by an unidentified suspect in Santa Ana. The woman described as being in her s or s by Santa Ana Police Department Cmdr. Jose Gonzalez was at Harbor Blvd. when she was shot in the back. After the shooting occurred she walked to a nearby gas.
A transgender woman was shot early Friday by an unidentified suspect in Santa Ana. The woman described as being in her s or s by Santa Ana Police Department Cmdr. Jose Gonzalez was at Harbor Blvd. when she was shot in the back. After the shooting occurred she walked to a nearby gas.
twistedhistory melbournemurdertours. 
Eileen Alice ONeill aged and single was charged at the Criminal Court on the th of December having murdered her child. After giving birth by a waterhole near the Lincolnshire Arms Hotel in Essendon she thought it was dead when born and though the baby into a waterhole. The jury found her not guilty but insane at the time of the birth. She was directed to be detained during the Governors pleasure. twistedhistory murder melbournemurdertours murdertours 
Sangal known as the Dandenong murderess delivered a female child at am on the th of November at the Melbourne Gaol. The child which was healthy was taken from its mother and sent to the Neglected Childrens Home as she was the property of tho State. The child was said to be the offspring of Tisler and was Sangals fifth child. twistedhistory melbourne melbournemurdertours 
Melbounes Gang Wars following murder of Lewis Moran on March . 
Dec WOMANS THROAT CUT Bendigo Murder MELBOURNE Dec. 
CharlotteMecklenburg police on Wednesday identified the victim of Tuesdays fatal shooting north of uptown as Deondre White .
The accused mastermind of a million pyramid scheme that bilked some million clients around the world goes on trial this week in Charlotte facing up to years in prison and a million fine. 
A man accused of killing a college counselor and soontobe bride has been extradited to the Mecklenburg County Jail from Nevada CharlotteMecklenburg police said Monday.
Statesville police on Monday were searching for a driver involved in a fatal hitandrun car crash.
Statesville police said Monday that officers have arrested a suspect in a fatal shooting.
A man died Sunday after a shooting Sunday in the block of Wilson Lee Boulevard in Statesville.
In a continuing crackdown on businesses with illegal gaming machines Concord police on Friday seized computer sweepstakes equipment from a business on Warren C. Coleman Boulevard and arrested the owner. 
Police have arrested a man in Thursdays hitandrun that critically injured a pedestrian on South Tryon Street at Sandy Porter Road in Steele Creek.
The alleged Charlotte gang members tied to the murders of Doug and Debbie London have now been linked to other other acts of violence from murder and robbery to retaliatory shootings of rivals. 
A Salisbury police officer was arrested Thursday on charges he stole four firearms from a family members home in Kannapolis.
Christopher Moore the Chester South Carolina teen convicted of murder in the shooting death of councilman Odell Williams rejected a plea deal that would have been for a maximum of years in prison. Moore was sentenced to life.
Police accuse a Morganton man of buying a teenage girl from Guatemala and forcing her into servitude.
Police are searching for a fourdoor burgundy sedan believed to have hit a pedestrian on South Tryon Street at Sandy Porter Road in Steele Creek late Thursday.
A man who got into a scuffle at a Spartanburg club and started firing indiscriminately into the crowd was stopped by another patron who returned fire after being injured.
CharlotteMecklenburg police on Thursday arrested a man they accuse of being involved in a homicide.
Our interactive map shows crimes reported to CharlotteMecklenburg Police. Click on the map to zoom into a specific area and click on an icon for more information.
Feds motion for statewide jury pool to protect from late venue change in Dylann Roof trial
Officers respond to pair of shootings in Charleston area as holiday weekend kicks off
WCIV ABC News Charleston South Carolina provides coverage of local and national news sports weather and community events in the region including North Charleston Mt Pleasant Summerville Hanahan Goose Creek Rantowles Cottageville St George Moncks Corner Jacksonboro Ravenel Cottageville Walterboro Sullivans Island Dewees Island and Folly Beach.
MANDEVILLE Manchester Sorrow and anger gripped Manchester residents yesterday as they mourned the brutal murder of wellloved selfmade businessman Trevor Meikle Sunday night.
But amidst the outpouring of emotion Superintendent Vendolyn CameronPowell who heads the Manchester police division cautioned residents against avenging the murder of the man who was a benefactor to many.
We are calling on the residents to think twice said CameronPowell yesterday. 
She said that she was not certain if the people making threats suspect who might have been behind the murder. However she suggested that any information about the killing should be passed on to the police.
Meikle was a relative of former United States Secretary of State Colin Powell who was also the first AfricanAmerican to serve on the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Meikle was the founder of what is now a secondgeneration blockmaking factory in Spur Tree Manchester. 
Up to the time of his death he was reportedly in charge of a trucking business that he also started. 
Yesterday a resident of his community lamented the murder. He was a peaceful quiet man who did a lot for the community the resident told the Jamaica Observer. He would help the community with fundraising he helped to send a lot of children to school and he also helped many people with funerals. The whole community is in mourning. 
Businessman and owner of Lyns Funeral Home Calvin Lyn corroborated that information saying that just recently Meikle came to his business place and was playing an integral role in the funeral arrangements for a former employee. Lyn said that by his recollection Meikle has been doing business in the parish for over years.
He described Meikle as a dedicated and patriotic Jamaican and a humanitarian at heart who was serious about playing his part in the development of the country. Loven McCook president of the Manchester Chamber of Commerce expressed condolence to Meikles family on behalf of his organisation.
It is very disheartening to know that someone who has contributed so much to the parish of Manchester through his businesses. was snuffed out life that he said.
McCook said that the murder has created a level of insecurity and urged especially members of the business community to remain vigilant.
He said that the chamber will be supporting the police through resources and other means possible as they undertake their duties.
As a chamber we will provide support to the security forces in whatever way we can help to speed up the process to bring the perpetrator s to justice said McCook.
. We welcome reader comments on the top stories of the day. Some comments may be republished on the website or in the newspaper email addresses will not be published. 
. Please understand that comments are moderated and it is not always possible to publish all that have been submitted. We will however try to publish comments that are representative of all received.
. We ask that comments are civil and free of libellous or hateful material. Also please stick to the topic under discussion. 
. Please do not write in block capitals since this makes your comment hard to read.
inextlive Varanasi Crime News Varanasi Crime News Hindi News Varanasi Crime News Latest News Varanasi Crime News Varanasi Crime News Varanasi Crime News Varanasi Crime News Varanasi Crime News inextlive .
A Barcelona court on Wednesday gave Lionel Messi and his father suspended sentences of months in prison for tax fraud.
New numbers released by the Albuquerque Police Department show an approximately percent increase in property crime and percent increas
The District Attorney said Tuesday that yearold Nicholas GonzalesVillasenor has pleaded guilty to charges in connection to the murder o
On Saturday and Sunday over the holiday weekend the Albuquerque illegal fireworks hotline line received nearly reports. Most of them ca
A man is behind bars Sunday after allegedly carjacking a vehicle from two teenage girls and leading Albuquerque police on a highspeed chase
A repeat drunk driver whos been on the news before is the subject of another story.
A repeat criminal is accused of breaking into a vehicle but the driver wasnt going to let him get away with it.
A California couple visiting Albuquerque for a national tour to show off a oneofakind model Tspeedster woke up this morning and it was g
An update look at how Albuquerque Police is handling its reforms has raised a major question in how the department looks at its own useoff
A former Roswell Police Officer is sitting behind bars accused of holding up a restaurant Tuesday night and you might remember her name
New Mexico State Police have identified the suspect who was shot and killed on Laguna Pueblo during an officerinvolved shooting on Monday.
Its going to be another hot day across New Mexico. The triple digit heat will expand as far north as Clayton this afternoon while the sout
LIN Television Corporation a Media General company. All rights reserved
A teen killed in a hitrun crash in northern Tulare County has been identified as yearold Matthew William Swepston of Squaw Valley.
A yearold Firebaugh woman died just before midnight Monday after she was shot in the chest during a cartocar gunfight between rival gangs on the outskirts of Dos Palos earlier in the day the Merced County Sheriffs Office confirmed.
A Hanford boy and three girls are under arrest after they allegedly stole a vehicle on the Fourth of July and took it on a joyride that ended in a highspeed chase and crash.
Confidential Clovis police documents concerning one of four officers involved in the alleged September beating of a motorcyclist should be made public a federal judge ruled Thursday in U.S. District Court. 
A Squaw Valley teenager was killed in a hitandrun crash on a rural road east of Orange Cove on Sunday morning the California Highway Patrol said.
A yearold boy was arrested Saturday in the Friday night stabbing at the Regal Cinemas movie theater at Manchester Center the Fresno Police Department said.
A teen was stabbed during an altercation among several teenagers Friday night at the Regal Cinemas Manchester in central Fresno Lt. Mindy Casto said. 
A Fresno man was found guilty on Wednesday by a federal jury on two counts of receiving and distributing child pornography acting United States Attorney Phillip A. Talbert announced.
A gang member in possession of a gun was arrested by Fresno police as part of an undercover operation in the Tower District Sgt. Robert Gonzales said Friday.
Holding back tears former Fresno police officer Jesse Joe Ruelas told a jury Friday in his misdemeanor child abuse trial that that he wasnt proud of yelling profanities at his teenage daughter and slapping her face but he said it was the only way to stop her from cursing badgering and blaming him for the familys breakup.
Mendota police say a man who may have sold drugs was arrested Thursday after witnesses saw him threaten another adult with a handgun. The incident occurred in the block of Sixth Street.
Details about what happened Friday morning July at Fresnos Courthouse Park where a man opened fire and victim was wounded. A suspect was arrested minutes later.
Fresno police take into custody a man suspected in a domesticviolence shooting at downtowns Courthouse Park on Friday July . Police Chief Jerry Dyer took part in the arrest.
Fresno police Friday morning arrested a man involved in an alleged domestic violence shooting in Courthouse Park.
A man riding a bicycle in Visalia was found in the road with gunshot wounds police say. 
One woman was injured during a driveby shooting on Thursday at Woodrow Wilson school in Hanford. 
A stabbing victim was taken to the hospital with nonlifethreatening injuries after a fight between neighbors in northeast Fresno on Thursday night the Fresno Police Department said.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
A Chesterfield County man has been charged with sexually abusing two girls ages and . His behavior so alarmed the parents of a third girl that they obtained an emergency protective order to keep him away from their daughter.
A man suspected of sexual assault faces multiple charges after authorities said he stole a landscaping truck Tuesday morning in Dinwiddie County and fled officers before crashing on Interstate in Petersburg sparking a fire that shut down the interstate for several hours.
A second inmate in the Richmond City Justice Center has been charged with drug possession in as many weeks.
Judge Roger L. Gregory the former law partner of L. Douglas Wilder will take over as chief judge of the Richmondbased th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Saturday.
When a Falls Church man threw what appeared to be two incendiary devices over the gate of the DarHijrah Islamic Center in Northern Virginia last fall police concluded it was a hate crime directed against Muslims at the mosque.
A Richmond woman has been arrested in connection with a June shooting in Highland Park.
Richmond police have identified a Chesterfield County man who was killed in a South Richmond neighborhood Friday.
Police are searching for a yearold woman they say seriously injured a man in a June shooting in Highland Park.
Hundreds of seniors and disabled Social Security recipients flocked to the federal agencys West Cary Street office on Friday for their monthly checks after a Richmondbased payee service suddenly closed leaving many without access to their accounts.
Its the craziest thing Ive seen in years said Petersburg police Capt. Brian Braswell.
Three Florida men have been charged after a pursuit that ended in a crash in Caroline County on Thursday night police said Friday.
A man found dead this afternoon at the City Motel on Richmonds South Side has been identified according to police.
A Chesterfield County man has pleaded guilty to stealing more than in government property from to .
A Mexican national caught May with more than pounds of cocaine in his vehicle intended for sale to a DEA cooperating source pleaded guilty in federal court Friday.
Richmond police have arrested a yearold man in connection with a shooting in the Gilpin Court public housing complex during daytime hours Wednesday.
Police departments across the region are reminding residents of the dangers of celebratory gunfire as Independence Day draws closer.
A Chesterfield County woman charged in a federal bank fraud case allegedly stole more than from the medical practice where she worked.
Henrico County police are searching for two people who fled Thursday after crashing a stolen vehicle into a tree in the western part of the county.
Sixtythree of dogs were adopted in Hanover County on Wednesday after having been seized from Stephanie Saunders a yearold Montpelier resident convicted of animal cruelty.
The Chesterfield County Police Department are looking for a man who they believe robbed a Eleven early Thursday morning.
Petersburg police are investigating whether a body found Wednesday night is that of a man who was inside a vehicle that police pursued a day earlier before it crashed off Interstate .
A Petersburg drug dealer was sentenced Tuesday to more than two decades behind bars for killing a former Chesterfield County firefighter who fell prey to drug abuse and was shot dead at a motel during a dispute over crack cocaine.
It could be months or even next year before former Gov. Bob McDonnell learns whether he can or will be tried again in light of Mondays U.S. Supreme Court decision overturning his corruption convictions.
A Hanover County teacher and soccer coach has been charged with molesting a girl who attends a day care facility that his wife operates out of their Chesterfield County home.
A Richmond City Council member lambasted Police Chief Alfred Durham on Tuesday for what she described as a lack of police presence in her district more than a month after the council approved a budget that allocated money for additional officers a stopgap for the more than officers that Durham says he needs.
Research homicides in Richmond and Central Virginia from January to the present.
Were always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know whats going on
Richmond TimesDispatch Richmond VA BH Media Group Inc. Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. Terms of Use
Log in to read an unlimited number of articles each month on Richmond.com and to read The TimesDispatch eedition. To log in enter the email address and password listed on your All Access account. Trying to pay a bill place a vacation stop or manage your account Click here.
Read the latest and breaking news on amarujala.com. Get live Hindi news about India and the World from politics sports bollywood business cities lifestyle astrology spirituality jobs and much more. Register with amarujala.com to get all the latest Hindi news updates as they happen.
Maitland police officers released dispatch records for their response to the mass shooting in Orlandos Pulse nightclub June . The Maitland Police Department was one of twelve local agencies to assist the Orlando Police Department during the attack which left people dead and at least injured..
W. Main St Tavares Jeremy David Gentry spent a week in the Lake County Jail without bond on a charge linked to the disappearance of an elderly Leesburg woman. Charges against him were dropped Thursday officials said. The yearold Gentry was charged with grand theft auto after a neighbor.
An Orlando man accused of beating his brothers exgirlfriend with a hammer and then telling him to finish her with a razor blade has been booked into the Orange County Jail more than a year after the incident records show. Johnson Bullock and his brother Thomson Bullock were arrested in.
Ten weeks after Lake County deputy sheriffs showed up at Bernadine Montgomerys doorstep to warn her of alleged exploitation the yearold Leesburg woman went missing. The investigation into her disappearance shifted to a homicide case Thursday Leesburg police said. Her vehicle was recovered.
Kissimmee police Chief Lee Massie whose agency has been rocked in recent months following officer arrests announced his resignation Thursday during a department meeting. Massie told employees he handed in his resignation and it would go in effect Aug. . He also sent out an email to employees.
Authorities responding to a hitandrun crash near Sorrento in April found a man bleeding on the ground near his smashed Toyota and the twisted wreckage of a Dodge pickup with no driver in sight. Investigators later identified the driver as Richard Anderson for decades a fixture in Apopka city.
Thirteen Orlando police and Orange County sheriffs deputies opened fire on Omar Mateen in the final gunfight at the Pulse nightclub OPDs SWAT commander said in an interview Thursday. Mateen appeared through a hole that was blown open by the bomb squad and officers opened fire said Orlando.
A Groveland man said he was attacked in his pickup truck at the intersection of State Road and th Street by an incensed driver in Clermont. Moments after Jeffrey Alberts allowed Lake County sheriffs deputies with lights and sirens activated to cruise past him on State Road Monday.
The human toll of the massacre at Pulse nightclub was known within hours but the monetary cost to Central Floridas governments has not yet been calculated. By the time they return to their normal duties Orlandos police and other staffers will have worked likely thousands of overtime hours..
An Orlando businessman accused of bilking investors out of more than . million by claiming he could manufacture a new healthier cooking oil has pleaded no contest to four felonies and been ordered to pay more than in fines. Gus Papathanasopoulos also has been placed on three.
Text messages emails and inspection reports raised issues Tuesday about whether all the exits were accessible and working the night of the Pulse nightclub shooting but Orlando Fire officials insist that there were no fire code violations. In a text message exchange sent hours after the mass shooting.
In the days after a gunman opened fire inside Pulse nightclub June Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer was deluged by emails from around the globe including many condolences and offers of assistance. A former city council member in Israel called the attack a horrific crime. Words of support came from.
SANFORD Rachel Fryer the Sanford mother who told police where she buried the body of her yearold daughter this morning pleaded guilty to seconddegree murder in exchange for a year prison term. Fryer had been facing the death penalty for the Feb. death of the child Tariji.
Two women are recovering after they were shot Sunday night inside a mobile home near Apopka an incident report said. Conrad Wirz was arrested shortly after the shooting when deputies tracked down the monster truck that a witness told deputies the shooter had been driving. When he was pulled.
The head of the NAACP in Baton Rouge called Wednesday for the police chief to be fired after a Louisiana police officer shot and killed a black man during a confrontation outside a convenience store.
President Barack Obama said Wednesday the U.S. will leave troops in Afghanistan when he completes his term down slightly from the current number but well up from the he announced previously arguing Americas interests depend on helping Afghanistans struggling government fight continuing.
In a gesture to her former Democratic primary rival Bernie Sanders HillaryClintonis announcing new steps aimed at tackling the rising cost of college tuition and the burden of student loan debt including a threemonth moratorium on loan payments for all federal borrowers. Clintonis also calling.
Sexual abuse by doctors against patients is surprisingly widespread yet the fragmented medical oversight system shrouds offenders actions in secrecy and allows many to continue to treat patients an investigation by The Atlanta JournalConstitution has found. The AJC obtained and analyzed more.
House Speaker Paul Ryan on Wednesday said he believes Hillary Clinton received preferential treatment from the FBI in its investigation of her email practices at the State Department and offered a series of next steps Republicans will take to push the case themselves. Ryan who was his partys.
A yearold St. Petersburg Florida man led Monroe County deputies on a chase down Interstate late Tuesday as Travis Williams Jr. hit speeds of mph on his motorcycle before crashing into bushes in north Bibb County.
Two men from Gray yearold Justin Woodall and yearold Aaron Kimbrough were hurt in a shooting early Wednesday morning on Pansy Avenue in Macons Unionville neighborhood according to the Bibb County Sheriffs Office.
A yearold woman was wounded by a stray bullet in east Macon on Independence Day.
A Macon man accused of beating several children and poking their bodies with scissors was indicted Tuesday. A woman who allegedly harmed the kids and failed to protect them was also indicted.
Milledgeville police are looking for the shooter who damaged a car about a.m. Monday as a yearold driver was headed south on South Elbert Street.
A Bibb County deputy opened fire on a fleeing gunman after hearing shots fired in Macons Pleasant Hill neighborhood near Grier Street and Neal Avenue.
The Georgia board of Pardons and Paroles is set to consider the case of John Wayne Conner on July . He is set to be executed the following day.
Derrick Dwayne Lamb was arrested in connection with an armed robbery of the GameStop on Presidential Parkway in Macon. Lamb is accused of dousing an employee in lighter fluid and threatening to set him on fire if he didnt hand over money in the cash register.
A Pinellas County Florida woman led officers on a chase of over miles in her Kia on Interstate early Friday as she fled through Cook Tift Turner Crisp Dooley Houston and Peach counties.
The air temperature was an estimated degrees on a July day in when Daniel Christopher Howard left his yearold son and a kitten behind in a moving truck as he went into Macons Zebulon Road WalMart. Howard pleaded guilty to cruelty to children Friday.
Bibb County sheriffs deputy responds to reported box cutter attack at Macon plant. Plus a woman says another woman hit her after accusing her of sleeping with the wrong man.
Daniel Christopher Howard of Appling pleaded guilty Friday in Bibb County Superior Court to cruelty to children a charge stemming from his leaving his yearold son in a moving truck with the windows up and without air conditioning as he shopped at Macons Zebulon Road WalMart.
The violent crimes unit at the Bibb County Sheriffs Office has so far had about half the workload that it did this time last year.
State troopers will be out in force during peak travel times during the long Fourth of July holiday travel period.
Shavious Antwan Balkcom pleaded guilty Thursday to his participation in the gang shootout at Macons Wings Cafe that left three men fatally wounded.
After being told to dry the dishes hed washed Tuesday evening a young man allegedly slapped his mother several times at her southwest Macon home.
What happened when a Macon man let a neighborhood teen take his Staffordshire bull terrier for a walk.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
Plantation fire officials say a gas bottle thrown at a vehicle at NW th Court began this fire. An arson investigation was taking place the fire department said.
Plantation fire officials say a gas bottle thrown at a vehicle at NW th Court began this fire. An arson investigation was taking place the fire department said.
An arson investigation was underway after a vehicle was set ablaze by a gas bottle that was thrown at it officials said. According to the Plantation Fire Department the incident happened during the overnight hours at an apartment complex at NW Ct. Fire officials tweeted a picture of the.
Foul play is not suspected after a mans burnt corpse was discovered Monday along one of Pembroke Pines busiest thoroughfares police said. Based on evidence gathered so far the incident did not appear to be criminal Pembroke Pines police said in a statement released Tuesday afternoon. The cause.
Firefighters answering a call about a mannequin on fire outside a craft store in Pembroke Pines early Monday found something more disturbing a dead person. According to Pembroke Pines police shortly before a.m. someone called to report that a mannequin was on fire near Michaels an arts.
A Fort Lauderdale man is facing sex charges after being accused of impregnating a yearold then fleeing to Haiti authorities said. Raymond Vincent was arrested Friday and charged with one count of sexual battery on a child and one count of lewd and lascivious conduct. U.S. marshals flew.
It wasnt an email from a foreign prince or some other royal promising instant wealth but it was a message from a yearold Margate woman posing as the owner of a car dealership asking for a wire transfer. And she got it police say twice. Sharon Dopwells wealth grew by nearly according.
Palm Beach Gardens police on Wednesday released the call that former officer Nouman Raja placed last year in the shooting and killing of stranded motorist Corey Jones. The call has been released a month after Raja was arrested and charged in Jones killing. The call recorded on Oct. starts.
No one could ever accuse Gary Czajkowski of giving cheap gifts. There was a Breitling wristwatch. A Caribbean cruise. Handfuls of gift cards. Tickets to NASCAR races in Homestead. The Palm Beach County utility contractor said its his nature to be generous so it made him feel.
A man sexually abused his yearold roommate who has Parkinsons disease at a Lantana nursing home police said and later told detectives he was just horsing around. Louis Lawson was arrested Wednesday. According to Lantana Police a nurse went into the mens room Nov. and saw Lawson.
Police say thieves busted their way into sixty cars along the Congress Avenue corridor early Thursday. The thieves even made off with two pickup trucks. Police recovered one of the vehicles a Dodge Ram abandoned and heavily damaged along I and Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard. Sun Sentinel.
Davie police released surveillance footage showing two men who are accused of robbing a man outside a Davie restaurant on Wednesday.
Davie police released surveillance footage showing two men who are accused of robbing a man outside a Davie restaurant on Wednesday.
Davie Police are looking for two men accused of robbing a man who wanted to buy cellphones through a Craigslist advertisement. It happened Wednesday afternoon when the prospective buyer met the two men at Robs Family BBQ W. State Rd. . police said. Instead of pulling out a cellphone.
A woman accused of killing her two children was found not competent to stand trial and will be hospitalized until she is sufficiently well for prosecution to proceed a Broward County judge ruled Wednesday. My client is suffering and needs to go to a hospital Assistant Public Defender Betsy.
Scott Olivier thought the moments after he pulled up to a Lake Worth stoplight could be his last. The driver beside him had fired a shot into his pickup truck. Olivier of Lakeland wasnt hit but the bullet pierced his Ford F and hit the engine stalling the pickup truck as the other.
A diversion program for teenagers addicted to drugs that helps them transform their lives celebrated its th graduation on May . In her courtroom in the main Broward County courthouse in Fort Lauderdale Judge Sharon Zeller sits beneath a poster that reads Every new day is another chance to.
MANDEVILLE Manchester Sorrow and anger gripped Manchester residents yesterday as they mourned the brutal murder of wellloved selfmade businessman Trevor Meikle Sunday night.
But amidst the outpouring of emotion Superintendent Vendolyn CameronPowell who heads the Manchester police division cautioned residents against avenging the murder of the man who was a benefactor to many.
We are calling on the residents to think twice said CameronPowell yesterday. 
She said that she was not certain if the people making threats suspect who might have been behind the murder. However she suggested that any information about the killing should be passed on to the police.
Meikle was a relative of former United States Secretary of State Colin Powell who was also the first AfricanAmerican to serve on the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Meikle was the founder of what is now a secondgeneration blockmaking factory in Spur Tree Manchester. 
Up to the time of his death he was reportedly in charge of a trucking business that he also started. 
Yesterday a resident of his community lamented the murder. He was a peaceful quiet man who did a lot for the community the resident told the Jamaica Observer. He would help the community with fundraising he helped to send a lot of children to school and he also helped many people with funerals. The whole community is in mourning. 
Businessman and owner of Lyns Funeral Home Calvin Lyn corroborated that information saying that just recently Meikle came to his business place and was playing an integral role in the funeral arrangements for a former employee. Lyn said that by his recollection Meikle has been doing business in the parish for over years.
He described Meikle as a dedicated and patriotic Jamaican and a humanitarian at heart who was serious about playing his part in the development of the country. Loven McCook president of the Manchester Chamber of Commerce expressed condolence to Meikles family on behalf of his organisation.
It is very disheartening to know that someone who has contributed so much to the parish of Manchester through his businesses. was snuffed out life that he said.
McCook said that the murder has created a level of insecurity and urged especially members of the business community to remain vigilant.
He said that the chamber will be supporting the police through resources and other means possible as they undertake their duties.
As a chamber we will provide support to the security forces in whatever way we can help to speed up the process to bring the perpetrator s to justice said McCook.
. We welcome reader comments on the top stories of the day. Some comments may be republished on the website or in the newspaper email addresses will not be published. 
. Please understand that comments are moderated and it is not always possible to publish all that have been submitted. We will however try to publish comments that are representative of all received.
. We ask that comments are civil and free of libellous or hateful material. Also please stick to the topic under discussion. 
. Please do not write in block capitals since this makes your comment hard to read.
Read the latest and breaking news on amarujala.com. Get live Hindi news about India and the World from politics sports bollywood business cities lifestyle astrology spirituality jobs and much more. Register with amarujala.com to get all the latest Hindi news updates as they happen.
A Chesterfield County man has been charged with sexually abusing two girls ages and . His behavior so alarmed the parents of a third girl that they obtained an emergency protective order to keep him away from their daughter.
A man suspected of sexual assault faces multiple charges after authorities said he stole a landscaping truck Tuesday morning in Dinwiddie County and fled officers before crashing on Interstate in Petersburg sparking a fire that shut down the interstate for several hours.
A second inmate in the Richmond City Justice Center has been charged with drug possession in as many weeks.
Judge Roger L. Gregory the former law partner of L. Douglas Wilder will take over as chief judge of the Richmondbased th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Saturday.
When a Falls Church man threw what appeared to be two incendiary devices over the gate of the DarHijrah Islamic Center in Northern Virginia last fall police concluded it was a hate crime directed against Muslims at the mosque.
A Richmond woman has been arrested in connection with a June shooting in Highland Park.
Richmond police have identified a Chesterfield County man who was killed in a South Richmond neighborhood Friday.
Police are searching for a yearold woman they say seriously injured a man in a June shooting in Highland Park.
Hundreds of seniors and disabled Social Security recipients flocked to the federal agencys West Cary Street office on Friday for their monthly checks after a Richmondbased payee service suddenly closed leaving many without access to their accounts.
Its the craziest thing Ive seen in years said Petersburg police Capt. Brian Braswell.
Three Florida men have been charged after a pursuit that ended in a crash in Caroline County on Thursday night police said Friday.
A man found dead this afternoon at the City Motel on Richmonds South Side has been identified according to police.
A Chesterfield County man has pleaded guilty to stealing more than in government property from to .
A Mexican national caught May with more than pounds of cocaine in his vehicle intended for sale to a DEA cooperating source pleaded guilty in federal court Friday.
Richmond police have arrested a yearold man in connection with a shooting in the Gilpin Court public housing complex during daytime hours Wednesday.
Police departments across the region are reminding residents of the dangers of celebratory gunfire as Independence Day draws closer.
A Chesterfield County woman charged in a federal bank fraud case allegedly stole more than from the medical practice where she worked.
Henrico County police are searching for two people who fled Thursday after crashing a stolen vehicle into a tree in the western part of the county.
Sixtythree of dogs were adopted in Hanover County on Wednesday after having been seized from Stephanie Saunders a yearold Montpelier resident convicted of animal cruelty.
The Chesterfield County Police Department are looking for a man who they believe robbed a Eleven early Thursday morning.
Petersburg police are investigating whether a body found Wednesday night is that of a man who was inside a vehicle that police pursued a day earlier before it crashed off Interstate .
A Petersburg drug dealer was sentenced Tuesday to more than two decades behind bars for killing a former Chesterfield County firefighter who fell prey to drug abuse and was shot dead at a motel during a dispute over crack cocaine.
It could be months or even next year before former Gov. Bob McDonnell learns whether he can or will be tried again in light of Mondays U.S. Supreme Court decision overturning his corruption convictions.
A Hanover County teacher and soccer coach has been charged with molesting a girl who attends a day care facility that his wife operates out of their Chesterfield County home.
A Richmond City Council member lambasted Police Chief Alfred Durham on Tuesday for what she described as a lack of police presence in her district more than a month after the council approved a budget that allocated money for additional officers a stopgap for the more than officers that Durham says he needs.
Research homicides in Richmond and Central Virginia from January to the present.
Were always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know whats going on
Richmond TimesDispatch Richmond VA BH Media Group Inc. Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. Terms of Use
Log in to read an unlimited number of articles each month on Richmond.com and to read The TimesDispatch eedition. To log in enter the email address and password listed on your All Access account. Trying to pay a bill place a vacation stop or manage your account Click here.
News Corp. is a network of leading companies in the world of diversified media news and information services.
Weve sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
inextlive Varanasi Crime News Varanasi Crime News Hindi News Varanasi Crime News Latest News Varanasi Crime News Varanasi Crime News Varanasi Crime News Varanasi Crime News Varanasi Crime News inextlive .
The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used
Maitland police officers released dispatch records for their response to the mass shooting in Orlandos Pulse nightclub June . The Maitland Police Department was one of twelve local agencies to assist the Orlando Police Department during the attack which left people dead and at least injured..
W. Main St Tavares Jeremy David Gentry spent a week in the Lake County Jail without bond on a charge linked to the disappearance of an elderly Leesburg woman. Charges against him were dropped Thursday officials said. The yearold Gentry was charged with grand theft auto after a neighbor.
An Orlando man accused of beating his brothers exgirlfriend with a hammer and then telling him to finish her with a razor blade has been booked into the Orange County Jail more than a year after the incident records show. Johnson Bullock and his brother Thomson Bullock were arrested in.
Ten weeks after Lake County deputy sheriffs showed up at Bernadine Montgomerys doorstep to warn her of alleged exploitation the yearold Leesburg woman went missing. The investigation into her disappearance shifted to a homicide case Thursday Leesburg police said. Her vehicle was recovered.
Kissimmee police Chief Lee Massie whose agency has been rocked in recent months following officer arrests announced his resignation Thursday during a department meeting. Massie told employees he handed in his resignation and it would go in effect Aug. . He also sent out an email to employees.
Authorities responding to a hitandrun crash near Sorrento in April found a man bleeding on the ground near his smashed Toyota and the twisted wreckage of a Dodge pickup with no driver in sight. Investigators later identified the driver as Richard Anderson for decades a fixture in Apopka city.
Thirteen Orlando police and Orange County sheriffs deputies opened fire on Omar Mateen in the final gunfight at the Pulse nightclub OPDs SWAT commander said in an interview Thursday. Mateen appeared through a hole that was blown open by the bomb squad and officers opened fire said Orlando.
A Groveland man said he was attacked in his pickup truck at the intersection of State Road and th Street by an incensed driver in Clermont. Moments after Jeffrey Alberts allowed Lake County sheriffs deputies with lights and sirens activated to cruise past him on State Road Monday.
The human toll of the massacre at Pulse nightclub was known within hours but the monetary cost to Central Floridas governments has not yet been calculated. By the time they return to their normal duties Orlandos police and other staffers will have worked likely thousands of overtime hours..
An Orlando businessman accused of bilking investors out of more than . million by claiming he could manufacture a new healthier cooking oil has pleaded no contest to four felonies and been ordered to pay more than in fines. Gus Papathanasopoulos also has been placed on three.
Text messages emails and inspection reports raised issues Tuesday about whether all the exits were accessible and working the night of the Pulse nightclub shooting but Orlando Fire officials insist that there were no fire code violations. In a text message exchange sent hours after the mass shooting.
In the days after a gunman opened fire inside Pulse nightclub June Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer was deluged by emails from around the globe including many condolences and offers of assistance. A former city council member in Israel called the attack a horrific crime. Words of support came from.
SANFORD Rachel Fryer the Sanford mother who told police where she buried the body of her yearold daughter this morning pleaded guilty to seconddegree murder in exchange for a year prison term. Fryer had been facing the death penalty for the Feb. death of the child Tariji.
Two women are recovering after they were shot Sunday night inside a mobile home near Apopka an incident report said. Conrad Wirz was arrested shortly after the shooting when deputies tracked down the monster truck that a witness told deputies the shooter had been driving. When he was pulled.
The head of the NAACP in Baton Rouge called Wednesday for the police chief to be fired after a Louisiana police officer shot and killed a black man during a confrontation outside a convenience store.
President Barack Obama said Wednesday the U.S. will leave troops in Afghanistan when he completes his term down slightly from the current number but well up from the he announced previously arguing Americas interests depend on helping Afghanistans struggling government fight continuing.
In a gesture to her former Democratic primary rival Bernie Sanders HillaryClintonis announcing new steps aimed at tackling the rising cost of college tuition and the burden of student loan debt including a threemonth moratorium on loan payments for all federal borrowers. Clintonis also calling.
Sexual abuse by doctors against patients is surprisingly widespread yet the fragmented medical oversight system shrouds offenders actions in secrecy and allows many to continue to treat patients an investigation by The Atlanta JournalConstitution has found. The AJC obtained and analyzed more.
House Speaker Paul Ryan on Wednesday said he believes Hillary Clinton received preferential treatment from the FBI in its investigation of her email practices at the State Department and offered a series of next steps Republicans will take to push the case themselves. Ryan who was his partys.
An exploration of the complex violent ecosystem that keeps New Orleans criminals armed.
The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used
News Corp. is a network of leading companies in the world of diversified media news and information services.
Weve sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
The preliminary deal follows a bout of public outrage over several crimes linked to personnel and contractors employed by the American armed forces.
Justice Sotomayors dissents this term came mostly in criminal cases and were informed as much by events in Ferguson Mo. in as by those in Philadelphia in .
Thousands of convicted immigrants were released into the United States with about of those later charged in homicides federal records show.
Volkswagen cheated on emissions tests because the chances of getting caught were low. Lets change the calculus of corporate crime.
Robert Byrd a man with many aliases and a history of deception found a new victim in Manhattan by chance prosecutors said.
State lawmakers have finally agreed to fully pay for lawyers for poor defendants.
Several states are using algorithms in the sentencing process part of a broader national push to incorporate data into law enforcement.
Prosecutorial misconduct remains rampant but the Justice Department has an asyetunused tool to fight it.
Reza Zarrab a Turkish gold trader facing trial in New York is asking the courts to let him avoid pretrial detention by posting a million bond and financing his own armed guards.
Software and apps are helping millions of Americans trying to solve civil problems on their own.
While Congress continues to drag its feet both red and blue states are showing how many ways there are to fix the broken justice system.
The legislation will create a civil process for some of the most common lowlevel infractions observed by police officers including public drinking and public urination.
Several Palestinians convicted of murder or of collaborating with Israel face execution after the call by Hamas the militant group that rules Gaza.
A minor criminal record can interfere with employment housing and education for life.
A computer model generates a list of people assigning scores based on factors like past arrests and gang affiliations. Civil liberties advocates are worried about the implications.
The preliminary deal follows a bout of public outrage over several crimes linked to personnel and contractors employed by the American armed forces.
Justice Sotomayors dissents this term came mostly in criminal cases and were informed as much by events in Ferguson Mo. in as by those in Philadelphia in .
Thousands of convicted immigrants were released into the United States with about of those later charged in homicides federal records show.
Volkswagen cheated on emissions tests because the chances of getting caught were low. Lets change the calculus of corporate crime.
Robert Byrd a man with many aliases and a history of deception found a new victim in Manhattan by chance prosecutors said.
State lawmakers have finally agreed to fully pay for lawyers for poor defendants.
Several states are using algorithms in the sentencing process part of a broader national push to incorporate data into law enforcement.
Prosecutorial misconduct remains rampant but the Justice Department has an asyetunused tool to fight it.
Reza Zarrab a Turkish gold trader facing trial in New York is asking the courts to let him avoid pretrial detention by posting a million bond and financing his own armed guards.
Software and apps are helping millions of Americans trying to solve civil problems on their own.
While Congress continues to drag its feet both red and blue states are showing how many ways there are to fix the broken justice system.
The legislation will create a civil process for some of the most common lowlevel infractions observed by police officers including public drinking and public urination.
Several Palestinians convicted of murder or of collaborating with Israel face execution after the call by Hamas the militant group that rules Gaza.
A minor criminal record can interfere with employment housing and education for life.
A computer model generates a list of people assigning scores based on factors like past arrests and gang affiliations. Civil liberties advocates are worried about the implications.
he Sawang Boriboon Rescue Team to a fatal motorcycle crash on Sukhumvit Road in Central Pattaya. The team found the body of year old Kongkiat with a fatal head injury after he crashed his bike into a road barrier. He was pronounced dead at the scene. A witness stated that he saw the man driving very fast in the heavy rain and he failed to see the apparently poorly lit barrier and hit it head on at speed. The body was taken to Banglamung Hospital and his family has been notified of the tragedy.News stories placed on this website are short versions. If you would like the full story please read the Pattaya People Weekly newspaper.read more
atest fads to share a video clip on the internet with more and more being shown every day the latest showed a schoolboy being attacked by a fellow student outside a school in North Pattaya. As a result of comments posted by viewers police got involved and managed to trace the culprits shown in the minute assault scenario. So far no one has been arrested and officials are waiting to assess results from witness statements about the incident.News stories placed on this website are short versions. If you would like the full story please read the Pattaya People Weekly newspaper.read more
out this week to a hotel on Wong Amat Beach in North Pattaya to attend to an incident involving Chinese tourists. Arriving at the hotel officers learnt that the tourists had been dropped off by two tour guides and told to wait in the reception area. Then one of the two ran off with the groups money to pay for covering their accommodation. A spokesman for the group told officers that they were on a prepaid package tour and while they were on the bus the guides asked for more money to cover costs during their stay. When the group complained to the reception they were told they had not received payment for the rooms and could not check into their rooms until they contacted the tour company to organise payment. Instead of the staff phoning the company they called the police to deal with the group. However the police sided with the group and phoned the tour company in Bangkok to arrange payment and thus the.read more
d out to Third Road after receiving a report that a Thai student had been robbed of a gold necklace by two teenagers. The year old victim stated that as he was riding his bike on Third Road two young men on a bike came alongside and the passenger grabbed his baht weight necklace and drove off quickly before he could give chase. A report was made and CCTV footage in the area will be screened to identify the thieves. News stories placed on this website are short versions. If you would like the full story please read the Pattaya People Weekly newspaper.read more
ceived a visit from year old Mr.Anant Yongwat to report that he and his friends had been beaten up by security guards at a night club on Third Road in North Pattaya. Apparently the drunken man bumped into another person whilst leaving. He apologized but suddenly was set upon by a security guard who punched him. His friends came to his aid but another gang of guards came forward and a fight broke out. He made the statement that he and his friends did not start the fight. A report was made and an investigation set up to solve the incident. News stories placed on this website are short versions. If you would like the full story please read the Pattaya People Weekly newspaper.read more
n Outlet Mall in South Pattaya after receiving a report that a thief had broken into a mans pickup truck and stolen a valuable religious amulet. At the scene officers came upon the victim year old Supot. He stated he was a street vendor and when he returned to his truck he discovered that someone had broken in and stole his amulet that was hanging on the mirror. A report was made and a fingerprint sweep was made and CCTV footage in the area will be screened in the hope of identifying the thief.News stories placed on this website are short versions. If you would like the full story please read the Pattaya People Weekly newspaper.read more
out to an apartment building after receiving a call from a woman that she had just been subject to sexual assault and was robbed of baht. At the building officers came upon the woman known only as May who stated that whilst she was sleeping she heard a noise outside and noticed a man come out of the dark and attacked her demanding sex. She gave the excuse that she was having a period and for some reason he just grabbed her money and left. As she kept changing her story about what occurred police are suspicious of the report. However CCTV footage in the area will be scrutinized in the hope of identifying the mystery man who could be a local resident.News stories placed on this website are short versions. If you would like the full story please read the Pattaya People Weekly newspaper.read more
r Chakorn Kanchanawatta announced the arrest of Yongyuth Supsin in a sting operation. The year old speedboat driver was found in possession of grams of crystal meth at a rented room in the Baan Rongpo community and for operating drug and sex parties. He was arrested after complaints were received that sex and drug parties were going on in the village so police went out to investigate. There they arrested men and women one of whom was Ms Koy who cooperated with police to set up a sting operation to capture Yongyuth. When he arrived on a motorcycle he was arrested together with drugs found hidden in his underwear. He was taken away to face charges and a day in court.News stories placed on this website are short versions. If you would like the full story please read the Pattaya People Weekly newspaper.read more
ang Boriboon Rescue Team were called out this week to a short time guest house in South Pattaya after receiving a report that a foreign female tourist had fallen victim to assault and robbery. In the blood splattered room they came upon year old Ms. Urazalieva Feruza from Usbekistan with facial injuries. She explained she had been in Pattaya for days and not knowing anyone she met up with a Thai man on the beach. He spoke English and she agreed to go with him to see the sights. However the sights the man was heading for was a short time hotel where she claimed as soon as they got into the room he punched her in the face and took her bag containing baht and a smart phone. A report was made and CCTV footage at the hotel is being studied to identify the thief.News stories placed on this website are short versions. If you would like the full story please read the Pattaya People Weekly newspaper.read more
er with the Sawang Boriboon Rescue Team was called out to a hotel on Soi in North Pattaya after receiving a report that a Chinese male tourist had been attacked by a ladyboy. Apparently the tourist had earlier entered into a Facebook relationship with who he thought was a Thai woman. So after travelling with friends to Pattaya year old Shun Wen got the shock of his life when he met up with his girlfriend as she turned out to be a he. An argument broke out and the insulted ladyboy punched the internet lover in the face and ran away. After hours police managed to find the ladyboy who coincidentally was staying at the same hotel. Mr. Kanokwan aged from Yasathon in North East Thailand was identified and arrested.News stories placed on this website are short versions. If you would like the full story please read the Pattaya People Weekly newspaper.read more
A yearold male has been arrested and charged with threatening to kill and wilful damage.
A man got in his car and chased police on a state highway for about km. He had just been banned from driving.
Truckers failure to give way killed a Wellington artist but removing licence too much judge rules.
Jardin WhangaElliott a one of a kind loving boy died after being chased from a st party and bashed.
Whanganui MP Chester Borrows says a prison volunteer stood down by Judith Collins is only an asset.
Man in custody after AOS callout but no explosives were found.
Agencies to discuss recordkeeping after meth cooks disappearance highlighted data gap.
Man gets five years in prison for sexually violating his friend with a broom handle.
A Waiouru soldier accused of assault does not remember the incidents or complainants.
A Canterbury childabuse pornography trader told himself that by paying for material he was helping starving children in the Philippines.
Drink driver was so determined not to break the law again he sold his car.
A yearold Hastings man was beaten in his home in June and is still recovering in hospital.
Police looking for an old looking bald man with long white beard after attempted abduction of an yearold.
A middleaged man in a suit said hed been set upon. The dad of one teen claims it was the other way round.
A former cop says MSD did not consider the risk to staffs lives from shooter Russell Tully.
Its unlikely a prolific burglar will be charged for all his crimes because police cant track down all his victims.
A yearold man allegedly threatened to open fire in a Christchurch mall and was found with a pipe bomb court told.
Jamie Jones led police and up to rubberneckers on peculiar pursuit for minutes due to emotional spell.
Two weeks after being released Mark Pakenham the killer of mumofthree Sara Niethe is back behind bars.
Leaves falling onto Keith Griggs driveway made him so angry he chopped his neighbours tree down.
Sex offenders extensive surveillance of property a worry for Supreme Court.
Three men deny importing half a billion dollars of meth into NZ but keep their names secret.
Mongrel Mob member TeAriki Malloy cut his monitoring bracelet off in May and has not been seen since.
Theft of firearms from two Otago properties prompts police warning.
He dropped to his knees in prayer in the courtroom but it didnt save the repeat offender from a stint in jail.
Fouryearold Maggie Watson was found dead in her home. Now her mother stands accused of killing her.
Woman claims she was assaulted at Auckland club but violence on both sides has been alleged.
He stole from a police social club fund and spent it on food drinks and hardware.
Family are real victims says lawyer as mum is jailed for stealing k from Victoria University.
Barcelona star Lionel Messi sentenced to months in prison for tax fraud
Richie McCaw movie set for New Zealand cinema screens in September
Saturdays Lotto is now a megarollover and New Zealands largest ever draw
Radio Sport hosts in hot water after describing AFL as bloody gay 
Fallen hero Oscar Pistorius sentenced to six years for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
Richie McCaw movie set for New Zealand cinema screens in September
Thousands of burning washing machines still at large as another goes up in flames
Parents guide to dealing with mood swings in your tween daughter
The rd precinct has had more shooting victims than any precinct in the city this year with people shot through Aug. a jump from last year according to NYPD statistics.
More than years after gunning down John Lennon Mark David Chapman says hes found new life in Jesus but he still cant stop bragging about the incredible manner in which he planned the rock icons death.
Watch live for the latest updates in the homicide case of Prince Joshua Avitto .
Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
Three men remained in Stanislaus County jail on Sunday facing robbery attempted homicide and other charges after a shooting at a southeast Modesto home Friday. Two other suspects are sought according to Modesto police.
A man was shot in Modestos La Loma neighborhood early Friday evening. The victim was conscious and being treated at the scene before taken to a nearby hospital.
A vehicle full of teenage girls fleeing the scene of a crash overturned in east Modesto on Wednesday night.
A man was taken from a west Modesto park by ambulance Friday morning after being found badly beaten and cut.
The driver of a silver sedan is being sought in a hitandrun collision on El Vista Avenue in Modesto on Thursday night that sent a female bicyclist to a hospital where she died hours later.
The names of two Modesto police officers involved in a deadly shooting last month are being withheld by the city which claims the release of the names could jeopardize the officers safety.
A judge this week sentenced a yearold Modesto man to years to life in prison for sexually abusing a yearold developmentally disabled boy. A jury on March found Santiago Casontos guilty of two counts of sodomy on a child younger than .
A judge on Thursday postponed a preliminary hearing to start Aug. for a Modesto City Schools employee accused of having a sexual relationship with a teenage girl.
A man suspected in a series of arson fires dating back to October was arrested Wednesday in connection with a fire that damaged a home in west Modesto last month. 
A Jamestown resident held an intruder at gunpoint early Wednesday until Tuolumne County sheriffs deputies arrived to place the man under arrest.
The suspect in the theft of a beerhauling big rig fled the truck on foot at the Briggsmore Avenue overpass in Modesto on Wednesday afternoon and was taken into custody in the parking lot of the nearby IHOP.
Dos Palos police used their noses Tuesday night to investigate an illegal marijuana garden operation worth more than million on the streets that landed a Modesto man in jail Police Chief Barry Mann said.
A community group on Tuesday called for the resignations of a local judge and Stanislaus Countys top prosecutor for a plea deal that resulted in no jail time for an exsheriffs detective once accused in a deadly shooting.
A Modesto man was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder after he allegedly held a gun to the head of a barista at the Pink Pantherz Espresso in south Modesto.
An inmate in the Stanislaus County Sheriffs Departments Alternative Work Program wont be doing his community service at the animal shelter any longer after posting online a photo of several euthanized dogs.
What started as a medical response resulted in the arrest of a Modesto man on suspicion of armed robbery and several other charges.
A man and woman were arrested Sunday afternoon when a police officer caught them engaging in sexual activity on a grassy intersection island between three busy roads in downtown Modesto.
One year ago on June th Dr. Teresa Sievers was found dead in her Bonita Springs home.
Attorneys for Mark Sievers filed a motion Monday to strike the states death penalty notice arguing the state didnt properly file it.
Court documents released Friday in the Mark Sievers case show Sievers has requested access to a codefendants testimony and to his wifes cell phone data.
The State Attorneys Office filed notice Wednesday that it will seek the death penalty against both Mark Sievers and Jimmy Ray Rodgers in connection with the June death of Sievers wife Teresa.
Hes already accused of paying his best friend to murder his wife. And now Mark Sievers no longer had any say in what happens to the two daughters he had with slain Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers.
Who murdered Teresa Sievers Thats the question a lawyer asked Mark Sievers on Wednesday at the Lee County Justice Complex.
Two men accused of involvement in the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers were back in court on Wednesday.
Discovery documents released Tuesday by the State Attorneys Office provide a glimpse into the intimate life of slain Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers and her husband Mark.
The two daughters of Mark Sievers will stay in the custody of their maternal grandmother.
Accusations flew across a Lee County courtroom on Wednesday in the latest stage of an ongoing custody dispute thatll determine who takes care of the daughters of Mark and Teresa Sievers.
Two of the men accused in the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers faced a judge on Monday afternoon.
The husband of slain Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers went before a judge Friday morning in his first appearance since a grand jury upped a murder charge against him.
The firstdegree murder indictments handed up by a Lee County grand jury this week would ensure Mark Sievers and Jimmy Rodgers would at least spend their lives in prison if convicted.
New attorneys for Mark Sievers filed a motion Thursday to again declare him as indigent.
A judge denied a motion Thursday to reduce Mark Sievers bond on a seconddegree murder charge.
An attorney representing Mark Sievers is contesting a petition by the Department of Children and Families that would essentially remove Sievers parental rights when it comes to his two young daughters.
A bondreduction hearing for accused murderforhire plotter Mark Sievers is scheduled for next week.
The daughters of Mark and Teresa Sievers will remain in the custody of their maternal grandmother for now.
Mary Ann Groves the mother of slain Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers has petitioned for temporary custody of the two children her daughter had with her husband Mark Sievers.
The Faga Law Group is getting its feet wet in a case thats garnered international attention.
The man accused of orchestrating his wifes gruesome murder has new representation.
Mark Sievers was previously represented by private attorney Lee Hollander. Hollander and Sievers parted ways in midMarch leaving Sievers without an attorney.
A hearing was continued until next month to decide who will get custody of the daughters of a Bonita Springs doctor who was found murdered in her Jarvis Road home last summer.
One of three men in custody in connection with the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers has entered a written plea of not guilty.
A year friend of Mark Sievers may have played a key role in his arrest last week.
A judge granted Mark Sievers phone contact with his two daughters during a hearing Monday morning.
NBC has confirmed Jimmy Rodgers one of the men accused of killing Bonita Springs Dr. Teresa Sievers is in custody atthe Naples Jail.
After his first night in the Lee County Jail Mark Sievers made his first appearance Saturday morning still handcuffed wearing a secure suit around his body and with two guards at his side.
NBC has an exclusive interview with Sandra Hoskins a longtime friend coworker and confidant of Dr. Teresa Sievers.She tells us the moment she first grew suspicious of Teresas husband Mark.
Mark Sievers the husband of slain Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers was taken into custody at his home Friday after a warrant was issued for his arrest.
A judge decided Wednesday morning that theres no chance Jimmy Rodgers the second man accused of involvement in the killing of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers will leave the Lee County Jail until he stands trial for her murder.
One of the men accused of killing Dr. Teresa Sievers is in Southwest Florida to answer charges.
One of the men accused in the killing of a Bonita Springs doctor will soon be released from federal custody which means hell be in Lee County to face a murder charge.
For the first time we are getting new insight into the marriage of Mark and Teresa Sievers. By all appearances the two seemed to be the perfect couple.But new video released this week paints a much different picture.
The State Attorneys Office released videos on Wednesday pertaining to the murder investigation of Bonita Springs doctorTeresa Sievers.
Materials released by the State Attorneys Office on Thursday are painting a picture of the final days of Teresa Sievers life.
The Teresa Sievers murder case has gripped Southwest Florida for months and yielded nearly pages of investigative evidence.
Curtis Wayne Wright the first suspect in the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers to go through the legal system in Lee County made a brief appearance Wednesday for a case management hearing.
The men accused of the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers Curtis Wayne Wright and Jimmy Rodgers met while behind bars in their home state of Missouri according to Rodgers girlfriend.
Attorneys for one of the men implicated in the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers will be in a Lee County courtroom this week.
Lee Hollander says the LCSO assessment of information recently released via thousands of pages of documents may not be the right one.
Mark Sievers kept custody of his two daughters Friday after a judge at a shelter hearing requested by the Department of Children and Families ordered the two sides to return on Monday.
A murderforhire plot New details continue to surface in one of Southwest Floridas mostwatched murder cases.
Court documents revealed Mark Sievers husband of murdered Bonita Springs Dr. Teresa Sievers had nearly million in life insurance policies available in connection with his wife. It also states Mark Sievers has not cooperated with the investigation since early July.
A tax lien of more than has been filed with the Lee County clerk of courts on the Bonita Springs home where Dr. Teresa Sievers was murdered.
An attorney for one of the men accused of killing Dr. Teresa Sievers will be back in court Monday.
For the very first time were hearing from the mother of murdered Bonita Springs Doctor Teresa Sievers.
Authorities are investigating a message scrawled on the outside wall of a Central Avenue church that neighbors said mentioned ISIS.
Authorities are investigating a message scrawled on the outside wall of a Central Avenue church that neighbors said mentioned ISIS.
A routine traffic stop Sunday in Fort Myers led to the arrest of a man wanted in Orlando.
A routine traffic stop Sunday in Fort Myers led to the arrest of a man wanted in Orlando.
NBC is learning new information about four brothels busted in Lee and Collier counties that authorities saidare all part of a massive human trafficking ring.
NBC is learning new information about four brothels busted in Lee and Collier counties that authorities saidare all part of a massive human trafficking ring.
A rash of car breakins happened overnight Thursday in Lehigh Acres. More than a dozen vehicles many reportedly unlocked were targeted off Milwaukee Boulevard.
A rash of car breakins happened overnight Thursday in Lehigh Acres. More than a dozen vehicles many reportedly unlocked were targeted off Milwaukee Boulevard.
A Fort Myers man was arrested for allegedly selling two vehicles using fraudulent means causing the buyers to have those vehicles repossessed.
A Fort Myers man was arrested for allegedly selling two vehicles using fraudulent means causing the buyers to have those vehicles repossessed.
Independence Day weekend is approaching and many people celebrating the holiday will be hitting the road.
Independence Day weekend is approaching and many people celebrating the holiday will be hitting the road.
Florida legislators passed bills during this years session three months ago and of them take effect on Friday with the start of the states fiscal year affecting school choice rape kit testing tax cuts and many more aspects of life in the Sunshine State.
Florida legislators passed bills during this years session three months ago and of them take effect on Friday with the start of the states fiscal year affecting school choice rape kit testing tax cuts and many more aspects of life in the Sunshine State.
If you know anything about these fugitives you can earn up to by calling Crime Stoppers at TIPS.
If you know anything about these fugitives you can earn up to by calling Crime Stoppers at TIPS.
Southwest Florida Crime Stoppers is searching for two men who broke into a Lehigh Acres home during broad daylight earlier this month.
Southwest Florida Crime Stoppers is searching for two men who broke into a Lehigh Acres home during broad daylight earlier this month.
The family of a yearold girl who was hit and killed on Saturday night while riding a tricycle wants the incident to be further examined.
The family of a yearold girl who was hit and killed on Saturday night while riding a tricycle wants the incident to be further examined.
A popular summer spot in Southwest Florida will be closed Wednesday after an early morning fire ripped through the parks main building.
Toxic bluegreen algae growing in Martin and St. Lucie Counties is making national news but its also confusing tourists traveling to beaches in Lee County.
A new Florida law aims to help drug addicts get the help they need by simply asking for it.
A shotgun blast through the wall of a Collier County home missed a woman living there by inches.
Alton Sterling a yearold black man was shot to death as he lay on the ground with two police officers on top of him Tuesday morning.
A Lee County deputy was hit by a vehicle early Wednesday morning off Bonita Beach Road in Lee County.
An Illinois man arrested after he posted a picture of himself burning an American flag over the holiday weekend will not be charged a states attorney said Tuesday.
All content Copyright Frankly Media and . All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site please read our Privacy Policy Terms of Service and Ad Choices.
A Chesterfield County man has been charged with sexually abusing two girls ages and . His behavior so alarmed the parents of a third girl that they obtained an emergency protective order to keep him away from their daughter.
A man suspected of sexual assault faces multiple charges after authorities said he stole a landscaping truck Tuesday morning in Dinwiddie County and fled officers before crashing on Interstate in Petersburg sparking a fire that shut down the interstate for several hours.
A second inmate in the Richmond City Justice Center has been charged with drug possession in as many weeks.
Judge Roger L. Gregory the former law partner of L. Douglas Wilder will take over as chief judge of the Richmondbased th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Saturday.
When a Falls Church man threw what appeared to be two incendiary devices over the gate of the DarHijrah Islamic Center in Northern Virginia last fall police concluded it was a hate crime directed against Muslims at the mosque.
A Richmond woman has been arrested in connection with a June shooting in Highland Park.
Richmond police have identified a Chesterfield County man who was killed in a South Richmond neighborhood Friday.
Police are searching for a yearold woman they say seriously injured a man in a June shooting in Highland Park.
Hundreds of seniors and disabled Social Security recipients flocked to the federal agencys West Cary Street office on Friday for their monthly checks after a Richmondbased payee service suddenly closed leaving many without access to their accounts.
Its the craziest thing Ive seen in years said Petersburg police Capt. Brian Braswell.
Three Florida men have been charged after a pursuit that ended in a crash in Caroline County on Thursday night police said Friday.
A man found dead this afternoon at the City Motel on Richmonds South Side has been identified according to police.
A Chesterfield County man has pleaded guilty to stealing more than in government property from to .
A Mexican national caught May with more than pounds of cocaine in his vehicle intended for sale to a DEA cooperating source pleaded guilty in federal court Friday.
Richmond police have arrested a yearold man in connection with a shooting in the Gilpin Court public housing complex during daytime hours Wednesday.
Police departments across the region are reminding residents of the dangers of celebratory gunfire as Independence Day draws closer.
A Chesterfield County woman charged in a federal bank fraud case allegedly stole more than from the medical practice where she worked.
Henrico County police are searching for two people who fled Thursday after crashing a stolen vehicle into a tree in the western part of the county.
Sixtythree of dogs were adopted in Hanover County on Wednesday after having been seized from Stephanie Saunders a yearold Montpelier resident convicted of animal cruelty.
The Chesterfield County Police Department are looking for a man who they believe robbed a Eleven early Thursday morning.
Petersburg police are investigating whether a body found Wednesday night is that of a man who was inside a vehicle that police pursued a day earlier before it crashed off Interstate .
A Petersburg drug dealer was sentenced Tuesday to more than two decades behind bars for killing a former Chesterfield County firefighter who fell prey to drug abuse and was shot dead at a motel during a dispute over crack cocaine.
It could be months or even next year before former Gov. Bob McDonnell learns whether he can or will be tried again in light of Mondays U.S. Supreme Court decision overturning his corruption convictions.
A Hanover County teacher and soccer coach has been charged with molesting a girl who attends a day care facility that his wife operates out of their Chesterfield County home.
A Richmond City Council member lambasted Police Chief Alfred Durham on Tuesday for what she described as a lack of police presence in her district more than a month after the council approved a budget that allocated money for additional officers a stopgap for the more than officers that Durham says he needs.
Research homicides in Richmond and Central Virginia from January to the present.
Were always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know whats going on
Richmond TimesDispatch Richmond VA BH Media Group Inc. Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. Terms of Use
Log in to read an unlimited number of articles each month on Richmond.com and to read The TimesDispatch eedition. To log in enter the email address and password listed on your All Access account. Trying to pay a bill place a vacation stop or manage your account Click here.
In ordinary language the term crime denotes an unlawful act punishable by a state. The term crime does not in modern criminal law have any simple and universally accepted definition though statutory definitions have been provided for certain purposes. The most popular view is that crime is a category created by law in other words something is a crime if declared as such by the relevant and applicable law. One proposed definition is that a crime or offence or criminal offence is an act harmful not only to some individual or individuals but also to a community society or the state a public wrong. Such acts are forbidden and punishable by law.
The notion that acts such as murder rape and theft are to be prohibited exists worldwide. What precisely is a criminal offence is defined by criminal law of each country. While many have a catalogue of crimes called the criminal code in some common law countries no such comprehensive statute exists.
The state government has the power to severely restrict ones liberty for committing a crime. In modern societies there are procedures to which investigations and trials must adhere. If found guilty an offender may be sentenced to a form of reparation such as a community sentence or depending on the nature of their offence to undergo imprisonment life imprisonment or in some jurisdictions execution.
Usually to be classified as a crime the act of doing something criminal actus reus must with certain exceptions be accompanied by the intention to do something criminal mens rea.
While every crime violates the law not every violation of the law counts as a crime. Breaches of private law torts and breaches of contract are not automatically punished by the state but can be enforced through civil procedure.
Domestic worker Emily Mchunu accused of conspiring to murder her employer and her coaccused boyfriend Joshua Nxumalo .
The mother and the grandmother of the little Jamie who died from abuse allegedly at the hands of relatives were brought .
The mom of an alleged Cape hitman linked to four murders said he is no killer but a rapper with a message of peace for the youth. VIDEO.
Victim Glen Maliwa described the chaotic scene of the bus crash on the M south just after the M split in Newtown.
The Hawks are probing whether a yearold man nabbed in Sea Point could be a contract killer responsible for several murders and attempted murders.
MEC Panyaza Lesufi is facing charges of assault intimidation and incitement of violence and harm after he posted a pic .
Domestic worker Emily Mchunu accused of conspiring to murder her employer and her coaccused boyfriend Joshua Nxumalo .
The mother and the grandmother of the little Jamie who died from abuse allegedly at the hands of relatives were brought .
The mom of an alleged Cape hitman linked to four murders said he is no killer but a rapper with a message of peace for the youth. VIDEO.
Victim Glen Maliwa described the chaotic scene of the bus crash on the M south just after the M split in Newtown.
The Hawks are probing whether a yearold man nabbed in Sea Point could be a contract killer responsible for several murders and attempted murders.
MEC Panyaza Lesufi is facing charges of assault intimidation and incitement of violence and harm after he posted a pic .
JMPD have launched a manhunt for the driver of the bus that collided with another car on the M leaving more than passengers injured.
Paul OSullivan has claimed he was forced to breach the Citizenship Act because he needed to travel under the radar to .
The R between Johannesburg and the Vaal was barricaded by protesters with debris and burning tyres placed along the RandVaal interchange.
It is expected that convicted murderer Oscar Pistorius will be back in prison this week but the question is for how long.
Opportunistic thieves were caught on camera casually opening the canopy of a bakkie that stopped at a traffic light before making off with goods.
Bewildered pupils at a Joburg Catholic school allegedly ran out of a school hall screaming and crying when a mom of one of .
The suspect that was alleged to be wheelchairbound suddenly stood up and grabbed the cash box before they all fled the scene..
A Sydnham family watched in horror as a group of men smashed their doors and ripped the roof off their home.
A couple are fighting for their lives in hospital after being shot in their car outside a block of flats in Wentworth Durban.
A yearold Broadmeadows man is remanded to face court charged with the murder of a woman and the alleged assault of three children.
Disgraced Paralympian Oscar Pistorius has been sentenced to six years jail for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago.
Disgraced Paralympian Oscar Pistorius is sentenced to six years jail for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago.
New South Wales police question people after nine search warrants are served simultaneously in centralwestern New South Wales. 
A man who stole three cars and evaded authorities in three hours of anarchy that stretched from the New South Wales border to the suburbs of Brisbane remains on the run police say.
A couple tormented neglected and abused their children by slamming their fingers in doors beating them with a whip and locking them outdoors overnight an Adelaide court hears.
Police are appealing for public assistance after a series of incidents where a man stole cars and fled from police from the NSW border to South Brisbane.
A police sniper who witnessed the execution of Lindt cafe manager Tori Johnson by gunman Man Haron Monis said he was unable to shoot Monis because he could not see him.
Lying on the ground after being shot times Derrick McManus knew he must survive. The former police officer now lectures groups on the durability of human performance.
An opportunistic sexual offender who groped girls on Adelaide buses is jailed.
Two families in Melbournes northwest are terrorised by intruders during earlymorning home invasions that appear to have targeted latemodel cars.
A man who was once acquitted of major terrorism offences is questioned in connection with the murder of a woman whose body was found in Melbournes north last month.
A man who flew into Australia from Tokyo and complained about feeling unwell is in a serious condition in hospital after suspected prohibited drugs were removed from his body during surgery police say.
A irate man from Humpty Doo calls police to complain that his father destroyed his cannabis plants during a domestic dispute.
Two men are arrested by police over a hitandrun incident where a man was dragged under a van in Norwood on Sunday.
There was a heavy police presence compulsory registration and bag checks at last nights meeting of Sydneys newlymerged Inner West Council.
Five people are committed to stand trial over drug cultivation and other offences following a raid near Taree last year where a young boy was found locked up. 
A man has been refused bail in the Dubbo Local Court after being charged with aggravated carjacking using a weapon to avoid apprehension and stealing a motor vehicle.
A man jailed for shooting dead a police officer in the s has been caught by police after escaping from a prerelease centre in Adelaides north.
The lawyer for a public servant who pleaded guilty to a dishonesty offence says four free iPads were not an inducement to order more than worth of printer cartridges.
A woman carjacked and forced to drive at knifepoint escapes her captor after stopping her vehicle outside a nearby police station and running inside for help.
A yearold man has been charged by police after lethal endangered and exotic reptiles from different native species were seized in Baldivis south of Perth. The reptiles included tiger snakes a dugite a mulga snake various species of python and a water dragon.
Police are called to a shopping strip in Kew after a womans body is found on a High Street property.
This service may include material from Agence FrancePresse AFP APTN Reuters AAP CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST Australian Eastern Standard Time which is hours ahead of UTC Greenwich Mean Time
Matthew Keller of Watauga is accused of exchanging nude photos and videos with a teenage boy in Michigan.
Police say he tried to rob a father and a son at a convenience store in Arlington on Sunday.
A Denton County jail officer remained in critical condition Monday after being involved in a motorcycle crash on his way to work.
A suspected robber was found shot to death in his vehicle near an Arlington convenience store and police said Monday he may have been killed by one of his intended victims.
A Plano High School baseball player was arrested June on multiple child sex charges.
The driver of a sedan was traveling at a high rate of speed when he lost control and collided with a sports utility vehicle Forest Hill police said.
A boater on Lake Grapevine reported a body on the slope of the south end of the dam police say.
Chicago woman testified that she planned to spend a week with C.J. Spillman at the Gaylord Texan hotel where he was living but he raped her after she asked to leave. 
Maritza Charles was arrested Thursday by police who say she left a yearold girl in a hot vehicle on June .
The robbery happened Wednesday at the First Convenience Bank off South Hulen Street. Police are searching for the suspect.
Chicago woman testifies that she planned to spend a week with C.J. Spillman at the Gaylord Texan hotel where he was living but he forced her to have sex after she asked to leave. 
The boy is accused of breaking into Meadow Creek Elementary School and setting fire to items in a classroom and spray painting graffiti according to the Fort Worth police and fire departments.
Miriam Cepeda has been on CNN and was featured in a Latinos for Trump feature on CBS News earlier this month. Her father was convicted in the murder of a cartel lawyer at Southlake Town Square.
A yearold Fort Worth man has been jailed on a murder warrant on accusations that he caused the death of his exs sister while shooting at another man. 
A former Dallas Cowboys special teams player is on trial this week accused of sexually assaulting a woman from Chicago who flew here to meet him at the Gaylord Texan hotel.
Texas Department of Public Safety will work with local police to increase enforcement during the Independence Day weekend. 
A Fort Worth police traffic captain has been jailed after an offduty twocar wreck in Hurst in which he is accused of being intoxicated.
There are some deep problems were dealing with here a Multnomah County judge told neighbors. While youre at ground zero its a community issue in a citywide sense.
The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used
Physician killed after attack inside Dallas mental health facility is remembered
Physician killed after attack inside Dallas mental health facility is remembered
A day after her fianc was arrested for murder of their newborn an Abilene woman will now likely face charges Abilene police say.
According to a police spokesman the mother yearold Amber Craker remained at the hospital Tuesday morning with an officer guarding her.
Spokesman Rick Tomlin said she will be taken into custody when she is released and brought to the Taylor County Jail.
Damian Scott Cate was arrested late Monday and charged with murder and seconddegree tamperingfabricating physical evidence with intent to impair human corpse. He is being held on bonds totaling .
A search warrant affidavit obtained Tuesday by KTXS also indicates three others may also face charges.
This investigation is ongoing and more arrests are probable the Abilene Police Department said in a news release Tuesday afternoon.
According to the warrant Amber Craker Damian Cate and three others in the home at the time committed the criminal offense of murder a firstdegree felony.
Officers went to the hospital and the CateCraker residence on South th Street.
Consent was given for police to search the residence and items located in plain view led police to seek the search warrant.
Among the items were a towel and sheet in the washer that appeared to be covered in fresh blood blood on the laundry room floor and the floor of the bedroom that Amber Craker and Damian Cate shared. In addition police found a knife with blood on it according to the warrant.
In the warrant a witness said Amber Craker moved from the bathtub to the toilet and thought she felt something release from her stomach. This happened around a.m. Monday.
According to the doctor Amber Craker told him that she didnt know she was pregnant. He received consent to perform surgery and he determined there were signs she had had at least a sixpound baby.
The doctor stated to us that his observations led to one thing only and that was that this woman had just given birth in the recent few hours the warrant said.
According to the warrant Amber Craker finally admitted to a detective that she had given birth to a baby in her bedroom and that after she gave birth she tried to flush the baby down the toilet the warrant said.
Damian Cate said Amber Craker did give birth to the baby in the bedroom but that he didnt what they did with it afterwards the warrant said.
According to the plumber he said he discovered the placenta and what appeared to be a limb in the line. He said the newborns body was later found in a trash can in the bathroom.
Taken from the home were items including blood swabs trash can with blood evidence bedding knife scissors cell phone a mop head pillow plunger socks and shoes the warrant said.
Copyright by KTXS All rights reserved. This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed.
To complete your registration on this site please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
For a more personalized experience please supply the following optional information.
Three men remained in Stanislaus County jail on Sunday facing robbery attempted homicide and other charges after a shooting at a southeast Modesto home Friday. Two other suspects are sought according to Modesto police.
A man was shot in Modestos La Loma neighborhood early Friday evening. The victim was conscious and being treated at the scene before taken to a nearby hospital.
A vehicle full of teenage girls fleeing the scene of a crash overturned in east Modesto on Wednesday night.
A man was taken from a west Modesto park by ambulance Friday morning after being found badly beaten and cut.
The driver of a silver sedan is being sought in a hitandrun collision on El Vista Avenue in Modesto on Thursday night that sent a female bicyclist to a hospital where she died hours later.
The names of two Modesto police officers involved in a deadly shooting last month are being withheld by the city which claims the release of the names could jeopardize the officers safety.
A judge this week sentenced a yearold Modesto man to years to life in prison for sexually abusing a yearold developmentally disabled boy. A jury on March found Santiago Casontos guilty of two counts of sodomy on a child younger than .
A judge on Thursday postponed a preliminary hearing to start Aug. for a Modesto City Schools employee accused of having a sexual relationship with a teenage girl.
A man suspected in a series of arson fires dating back to October was arrested Wednesday in connection with a fire that damaged a home in west Modesto last month. 
A Jamestown resident held an intruder at gunpoint early Wednesday until Tuolumne County sheriffs deputies arrived to place the man under arrest.
The suspect in the theft of a beerhauling big rig fled the truck on foot at the Briggsmore Avenue overpass in Modesto on Wednesday afternoon and was taken into custody in the parking lot of the nearby IHOP.
Dos Palos police used their noses Tuesday night to investigate an illegal marijuana garden operation worth more than million on the streets that landed a Modesto man in jail Police Chief Barry Mann said.
A community group on Tuesday called for the resignations of a local judge and Stanislaus Countys top prosecutor for a plea deal that resulted in no jail time for an exsheriffs detective once accused in a deadly shooting.
A Modesto man was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder after he allegedly held a gun to the head of a barista at the Pink Pantherz Espresso in south Modesto.
An inmate in the Stanislaus County Sheriffs Departments Alternative Work Program wont be doing his community service at the animal shelter any longer after posting online a photo of several euthanized dogs.
What started as a medical response resulted in the arrest of a Modesto man on suspicion of armed robbery and several other charges.
A man and woman were arrested Sunday afternoon when a police officer caught them engaging in sexual activity on a grassy intersection island between three busy roads in downtown Modesto.
Domestic worker Emily Mchunu accused of conspiring to murder her employer and her coaccused boyfriend Joshua Nxumalo .
The mother and the grandmother of the little Jamie who died from abuse allegedly at the hands of relatives were brought .
The mom of an alleged Cape hitman linked to four murders said he is no killer but a rapper with a message of peace for the youth. VIDEO.
Victim Glen Maliwa described the chaotic scene of the bus crash on the M south just after the M split in Newtown.
The Hawks are probing whether a yearold man nabbed in Sea Point could be a contract killer responsible for several murders and attempted murders.
MEC Panyaza Lesufi is facing charges of assault intimidation and incitement of violence and harm after he posted a pic .
Domestic worker Emily Mchunu accused of conspiring to murder her employer and her coaccused boyfriend Joshua Nxumalo .
The mother and the grandmother of the little Jamie who died from abuse allegedly at the hands of relatives were brought .
The mom of an alleged Cape hitman linked to four murders said he is no killer but a rapper with a message of peace for the youth. VIDEO.
Victim Glen Maliwa described the chaotic scene of the bus crash on the M south just after the M split in Newtown.
The Hawks are probing whether a yearold man nabbed in Sea Point could be a contract killer responsible for several murders and attempted murders.
MEC Panyaza Lesufi is facing charges of assault intimidation and incitement of violence and harm after he posted a pic .
JMPD have launched a manhunt for the driver of the bus that collided with another car on the M leaving more than passengers injured.
Paul OSullivan has claimed he was forced to breach the Citizenship Act because he needed to travel under the radar to .
The R between Johannesburg and the Vaal was barricaded by protesters with debris and burning tyres placed along the RandVaal interchange.
It is expected that convicted murderer Oscar Pistorius will be back in prison this week but the question is for how long.
Opportunistic thieves were caught on camera casually opening the canopy of a bakkie that stopped at a traffic light before making off with goods.
Bewildered pupils at a Joburg Catholic school allegedly ran out of a school hall screaming and crying when a mom of one of .
The suspect that was alleged to be wheelchairbound suddenly stood up and grabbed the cash box before they all fled the scene..
A Sydnham family watched in horror as a group of men smashed their doors and ripped the roof off their home.
A couple are fighting for their lives in hospital after being shot in their car outside a block of flats in Wentworth Durban.
Plantation fire officials say a gas bottle thrown at a vehicle at NW th Court began this fire. An arson investigation was taking place the fire department said.
Plantation fire officials say a gas bottle thrown at a vehicle at NW th Court began this fire. An arson investigation was taking place the fire department said.
An arson investigation was underway after a vehicle was set ablaze by a gas bottle that was thrown at it officials said. According to the Plantation Fire Department the incident happened during the overnight hours at an apartment complex at NW Ct. Fire officials tweeted a picture of the.
Foul play is not suspected after a mans burnt corpse was discovered Monday along one of Pembroke Pines busiest thoroughfares police said. Based on evidence gathered so far the incident did not appear to be criminal Pembroke Pines police said in a statement released Tuesday afternoon. The cause.
Firefighters answering a call about a mannequin on fire outside a craft store in Pembroke Pines early Monday found something more disturbing a dead person. According to Pembroke Pines police shortly before a.m. someone called to report that a mannequin was on fire near Michaels an arts.
A Fort Lauderdale man is facing sex charges after being accused of impregnating a yearold then fleeing to Haiti authorities said. Raymond Vincent was arrested Friday and charged with one count of sexual battery on a child and one count of lewd and lascivious conduct. U.S. marshals flew.
It wasnt an email from a foreign prince or some other royal promising instant wealth but it was a message from a yearold Margate woman posing as the owner of a car dealership asking for a wire transfer. And she got it police say twice. Sharon Dopwells wealth grew by nearly according.
Palm Beach Gardens police on Wednesday released the call that former officer Nouman Raja placed last year in the shooting and killing of stranded motorist Corey Jones. The call has been released a month after Raja was arrested and charged in Jones killing. The call recorded on Oct. starts.
No one could ever accuse Gary Czajkowski of giving cheap gifts. There was a Breitling wristwatch. A Caribbean cruise. Handfuls of gift cards. Tickets to NASCAR races in Homestead. The Palm Beach County utility contractor said its his nature to be generous so it made him feel.
A man sexually abused his yearold roommate who has Parkinsons disease at a Lantana nursing home police said and later told detectives he was just horsing around. Louis Lawson was arrested Wednesday. According to Lantana Police a nurse went into the mens room Nov. and saw Lawson.
Police say thieves busted their way into sixty cars along the Congress Avenue corridor early Thursday. The thieves even made off with two pickup trucks. Police recovered one of the vehicles a Dodge Ram abandoned and heavily damaged along I and Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard. Sun Sentinel.
Davie police released surveillance footage showing two men who are accused of robbing a man outside a Davie restaurant on Wednesday.
Davie police released surveillance footage showing two men who are accused of robbing a man outside a Davie restaurant on Wednesday.
Davie Police are looking for two men accused of robbing a man who wanted to buy cellphones through a Craigslist advertisement. It happened Wednesday afternoon when the prospective buyer met the two men at Robs Family BBQ W. State Rd. . police said. Instead of pulling out a cellphone.
A woman accused of killing her two children was found not competent to stand trial and will be hospitalized until she is sufficiently well for prosecution to proceed a Broward County judge ruled Wednesday. My client is suffering and needs to go to a hospital Assistant Public Defender Betsy.
Scott Olivier thought the moments after he pulled up to a Lake Worth stoplight could be his last. The driver beside him had fired a shot into his pickup truck. Olivier of Lakeland wasnt hit but the bullet pierced his Ford F and hit the engine stalling the pickup truck as the other.
A diversion program for teenagers addicted to drugs that helps them transform their lives celebrated its th graduation on May . In her courtroom in the main Broward County courthouse in Fort Lauderdale Judge Sharon Zeller sits beneath a poster that reads Every new day is another chance to.
A teen killed in a hitrun crash in northern Tulare County has been identified as yearold Matthew William Swepston of Squaw Valley.
A yearold Firebaugh woman died just before midnight Monday after she was shot in the chest during a cartocar gunfight between rival gangs on the outskirts of Dos Palos earlier in the day the Merced County Sheriffs Office confirmed.
A Hanford boy and three girls are under arrest after they allegedly stole a vehicle on the Fourth of July and took it on a joyride that ended in a highspeed chase and crash.
Confidential Clovis police documents concerning one of four officers involved in the alleged September beating of a motorcyclist should be made public a federal judge ruled Thursday in U.S. District Court. 
A Squaw Valley teenager was killed in a hitandrun crash on a rural road east of Orange Cove on Sunday morning the California Highway Patrol said.
A yearold boy was arrested Saturday in the Friday night stabbing at the Regal Cinemas movie theater at Manchester Center the Fresno Police Department said.
A teen was stabbed during an altercation among several teenagers Friday night at the Regal Cinemas Manchester in central Fresno Lt. Mindy Casto said. 
A Fresno man was found guilty on Wednesday by a federal jury on two counts of receiving and distributing child pornography acting United States Attorney Phillip A. Talbert announced.
A gang member in possession of a gun was arrested by Fresno police as part of an undercover operation in the Tower District Sgt. Robert Gonzales said Friday.
Holding back tears former Fresno police officer Jesse Joe Ruelas told a jury Friday in his misdemeanor child abuse trial that that he wasnt proud of yelling profanities at his teenage daughter and slapping her face but he said it was the only way to stop her from cursing badgering and blaming him for the familys breakup.
Mendota police say a man who may have sold drugs was arrested Thursday after witnesses saw him threaten another adult with a handgun. The incident occurred in the block of Sixth Street.
Details about what happened Friday morning July at Fresnos Courthouse Park where a man opened fire and victim was wounded. A suspect was arrested minutes later.
Fresno police take into custody a man suspected in a domesticviolence shooting at downtowns Courthouse Park on Friday July . Police Chief Jerry Dyer took part in the arrest.
Fresno police Friday morning arrested a man involved in an alleged domestic violence shooting in Courthouse Park.
A man riding a bicycle in Visalia was found in the road with gunshot wounds police say. 
One woman was injured during a driveby shooting on Thursday at Woodrow Wilson school in Hanford. 
A stabbing victim was taken to the hospital with nonlifethreatening injuries after a fight between neighbors in northeast Fresno on Thursday night the Fresno Police Department said.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
This page started as a result of a post about victim blaming so youd think those following it would understa.nd that concept. But apparently not. 
Yesterday I put up a post about the arrest of men after the horrific rape of a year old girl. It was not stated in the post or link but most people know that the girl in question was in a park with a friend well after midnight when she was grabbed dragged to the garage of a house nearby and seriously assaulted. And because of where she was apparently this seems to make her assault her own fault. People posted just that on yesterdays thread.
. When you blame a victim you actually increase the chances that rapists will continue to rape. Why Because youre telling them its the victims fault wrong place wrong time wrong clothes wrong heels wrong age wrong attitude wrong wrong wrong. So anytime a potential rapist sees a woman in any of those situations they believe the woman is fair game. Do you really want to contribute to the incidence of rape
. When you make victims to blame for their own assaults you make it less likely much less likely theyll report their assault and the perpetrators will be caught. This means most rapists get away with their crimes. They largely know theyre safe precisely because so many people find it more convenient to blame women rather than rapists. Still think its okay to blame victims
. When you wonder why the girls parents didnt protect her you make their suffering worse. Their daughter has been raped why do you want to make them feel even worse Maybe they thought she was safe with a male friend and the park was just a few metres away. Maybe she snuck out and the parents didnt know shed gone did you never do that as a teenager Do you want her parents to now come out and throw their daughter under a bus on top of what else has happened to her Really
. When you stop women going about their lives by telling them theyre in the wrong place you may stop some women from being in those places. But do you know who you wont stop Rapists because theyll find their victims elsewhere. By making women keep out of parks and lonely streets at night you dont stop rape. You may stop people raping YOU or people you care about but you dont reduce rape in fact you may even increase it see Points and . Are you okay with that
. Just where do you draw the line about where its okay for a woman to be Women are raped and killed everywhere. Masa was killed in a park in broad daylight. Stephanie was killed at her workplace in the middle of the day. A woman was killed recently after being run off the road and bludgeoned to death in her car also in the middle of the day. So lets get to the nitty gritty where exactly is it okay for women to be Parks are out. Schools are out. Streets are out. How many women can live their lives without being anywhere at any time alone And even if they can is this any way for an actual human to be forced to live 
. Youre also perpetuating the GREAT BIG MYTH that women are mostly in danger from strangers. Nope not even close. Most rapes assaults and murders of women occur in their own homes. If you want to tell women where they can be safe just where exactly do you propose they choose Mars
. Finally dont ever compare a woman to a car being stolen or a house being broken into. Women dont come with locks and burglar alarms and hey they are actual PEOPLE and when you compare them to inanimate objects you make them worth no more than a TV or laptop. This keeps on oh how it keeps on making women unimportant and so rapists find reasons to keep raping them. If you ever compare rape to crimes involving objects or even animals can you please stop now
I know many will be thinking well am I not allowed to try to keep those I love safe Yes yes you are. All of us tell our kids and others we care about how to keep safe. Of course we do its impossible not to. The thing is do it in private always and dont overdo it. Dont make your daughter feel if she makes a mistake or gets drunk or just walks through a park when theres a rapist in it that you will blame her in any way. Dont make women wrong. Ever.
If you know anyone who has or might blame victims please share this post. Hell please share it anyway blaming victims is so endemic youre sure to know someone who does it. Tell them theyre increasing rape. Tell them today. 
For us the National Police Memorial is a sacred place bearing the names of the Aust.ralian police officers who have been killed in the line of duty.
Our annual pilgrimage to the memorial known as the Wall to Wall Ride for Remembrance saw thousands of police officers and supporters arrive together in Canberra on Saturday afternoon. From all corners of the country they came to pay their respects to fallen colleagues.
A tradition of the ride is for handmade wooden batons to be carried to the memorial from each capital city. The batons have been engraved with each police jurisdictions emblem and carry the names of officers who have paid the ultimate sacrifice as a result of their service to the community.
Detectives have released a new image of a woman who may be able to assist with their investigation into the armed robbery of a Kippa Ring gift shop last month.
Around pm on August a woman entered the Anzac Avenue business and produced a knife demanding money from a female staff member.
The employee complied with the demands and the woman stole a sum of cash before fleeing the scene on foot.
The woman is described as Caucasian approximately cm tall of thin build with sun weathered skin curly greybrown hair tied in a bun and discoloured front teeth.
Police believe the woman might also be able to assist with a stealing incident also on Anzac Avenue in August at Mango Hill.
Anyone with information in relation to the identity of the person in the attached image is requested to please contact Crimestoppers on .
Anyone with information which could assist with this matter should contact Crime Stoppers anonymously via or crimestoppers.com.au hrs a day.
Crime Stoppers is a registered charity and community volunteer organisation working in partnership with the Queensland Police Service.
For all nonurgent police reporting or general police inquiries contact Policelink on or Policelink.qld.gov.au hrs a day.
The owner of this website www.truecrimereport.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature befbfedua.
A yearold Broadmeadows man is remanded to face court charged with the murder of a woman and the alleged assault of three children.
Disgraced Paralympian Oscar Pistorius has been sentenced to six years jail for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago.
Disgraced Paralympian Oscar Pistorius is sentenced to six years jail for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago.
New South Wales police question people after nine search warrants are served simultaneously in centralwestern New South Wales. 
A man who stole three cars and evaded authorities in three hours of anarchy that stretched from the New South Wales border to the suburbs of Brisbane remains on the run police say.
A couple tormented neglected and abused their children by slamming their fingers in doors beating them with a whip and locking them outdoors overnight an Adelaide court hears.
Police are appealing for public assistance after a series of incidents where a man stole cars and fled from police from the NSW border to South Brisbane.
A police sniper who witnessed the execution of Lindt cafe manager Tori Johnson by gunman Man Haron Monis said he was unable to shoot Monis because he could not see him.
Lying on the ground after being shot times Derrick McManus knew he must survive. The former police officer now lectures groups on the durability of human performance.
An opportunistic sexual offender who groped girls on Adelaide buses is jailed.
Two families in Melbournes northwest are terrorised by intruders during earlymorning home invasions that appear to have targeted latemodel cars.
A man who was once acquitted of major terrorism offences is questioned in connection with the murder of a woman whose body was found in Melbournes north last month.
A man who flew into Australia from Tokyo and complained about feeling unwell is in a serious condition in hospital after suspected prohibited drugs were removed from his body during surgery police say.
A irate man from Humpty Doo calls police to complain that his father destroyed his cannabis plants during a domestic dispute.
Two men are arrested by police over a hitandrun incident where a man was dragged under a van in Norwood on Sunday.
There was a heavy police presence compulsory registration and bag checks at last nights meeting of Sydneys newlymerged Inner West Council.
Five people are committed to stand trial over drug cultivation and other offences following a raid near Taree last year where a young boy was found locked up. 
A man has been refused bail in the Dubbo Local Court after being charged with aggravated carjacking using a weapon to avoid apprehension and stealing a motor vehicle.
A man jailed for shooting dead a police officer in the s has been caught by police after escaping from a prerelease centre in Adelaides north.
The lawyer for a public servant who pleaded guilty to a dishonesty offence says four free iPads were not an inducement to order more than worth of printer cartridges.
A woman carjacked and forced to drive at knifepoint escapes her captor after stopping her vehicle outside a nearby police station and running inside for help.
A yearold man has been charged by police after lethal endangered and exotic reptiles from different native species were seized in Baldivis south of Perth. The reptiles included tiger snakes a dugite a mulga snake various species of python and a water dragon.
Police are called to a shopping strip in Kew after a womans body is found on a High Street property.
This service may include material from Agence FrancePresse AFP APTN Reuters AAP CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST Australian Eastern Standard Time which is hours ahead of UTC Greenwich Mean Time
POLICE in Edinburgh have released new images of two men they wish to trace in connection with a serious assault outside Boteco Do Brasil Lothian Street Edinburgh around .am on Saturday st May .
A TELEVISION appeal has been aired in the United States to help catch an Edinburghborn businessman who is on the FBIs most wanted list over a million luxury car scam.
A LITTLE under five years ago Hannah Wood was recovering in hospital after a bottle attack left her scarred and partially blinded.
A MAN whose absolutely fabulous costume caught the attention of First Minister Nicola Sturgeon at the Edinburgh Pride festival was subjected to a homophobic tirade on a packed city bus just hours later.
A BROTHELkeeper facing a million confiscation order has told a court she wants to know what happened to her collection of designer shoes and handbags.
POLICE have released CCTV pictures of fans they want to trace in connection with trouble at the end of the Scottish Cup Final. 
A dog walker was rescued by her pet as a wouldbe thief tried to steal her handbag.
Police are hunting two men who attacked and robbed a teenage boy of his mobile phone on Friday afternoon.
FOUR more people have been arrested in relation to violence and disorder at the Scottish Cup Final.
A YEAROLD man is facing a lengthy prison sentence after being convicted of involvement in trafficking illegal drugs worth more than .
POLICE are to be called in to probe allegations of fraud at an armslength council company and the despicable harassment of the whistleblower who raised the concerns.
A FORMER council care worker has been jailed for six years after committing a catalogue of rape and sexual abuse against vulnerable youngsters being looked after by a local authority.
A HIGHLYORGANISED criminal gang is being hunted by police after conning vulnerable pensioners out of more than in just ten days.
A SUICIDAL man has admitted putting his neighbours lives in danger after waking up in a gasfilled flat and lighting a cigarette. 
A LOTHIAN man who claimed he was caring considerate and had respect towards women has been convicted of raping four females. 
EDINBURGHS most senior police officer has warned of a dramatic rise in sexting and complaints about sexual images being sent to and from youngsters in the city.
A MAN who groped two women and exposed himself to a third was caught out when one of his victims turned out to be an offduty police officer.
A MASKED teenager fired an air gun at a bus travelling through the city at the weekend.
A FRAUD trial launched against the former boss of a major hospital fundraising campaign has been put on ice two years after it started.
Five teenagers have been arrested and charged in connection with a series of housebreakings in Edinburgh. 
Registering with Edinburgh Evening News means youre ok with our terms and conditions.
Alternatively you can create a new account with another email address.
Enter your postcode so we can keep you uptodate with the latest local news and exciting deals.
Alternatively you can create a new account with another email address.
Were making changes to our website and as part of that we are no longer updating this blog. But have no fear We are still posting the kinds of stories youre looking for.
To read the latest crime coverage please head to dallasnews.comcrime. Thanks for being a loyal reader.
Rockwall County Judge David Sweet provided a handwritten statement Tuesday morning declining to comment on an incident early Friday in which he was booked into the county jail and charged with driving under the influence.
In his first officialappearancesince being pulled over early Friday and arrested on a charge of driving while intoxicated Rockwall County Judge David Sweet declined to comment on the case.
Sweet hastily wrote a statement declining to comment after presiding over a minute session of Rockwall County Commissioners Court on Tuesday morning. Four reporters were present and though asked the judge did not read his statement aloud.
David Sweet was Rockwalls mayor from to before taking over as Rockwall County judge. File Photo
I will not make any comments at this time other to say I must let the legal process take its course he wrote. He has not made public comment on the case or been active on social media since the incident.
Four of five commissioners were present as county business was conducted Tuesday without public mention of the judges legal situation.
Among other actions commissioners approved an application for in grants to equip sheriffs department patrol officers with body cameras. They routinely announced July parades in Heath and Rockwall and supportedthe news that American flags wouldfly atthe courthouse for the holiday.
Outside of county staff only about a dozen people were in attendance. Nonespoke in the public forum session of the meeting.
Sweet has been county judge since . He was Rockwalls mayor from to and had been elected to the Rockwall City Council in and .
Join Dallas attorneys Friday on the steps of the Frank Crowley Courts Building outside downtown Dallas for a reading of the Declaration of Independence.
The courthouse is at N. Riverfront Blvd. You cant miss the steps in the front.
Johnny Manziel in a Dallas courtroom after a bond hearing. Smiley N. PoolThe Dallas Morning News
The attorney who accidentally sent a textabout former Texas AM and Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel seeking a plea deal and his ability to stay clean is no longer on the case.
Manziels spokeswoman Denise Michaels tweeted today that Bob Hinton has withdrawn. Jim Darnell remains the lead attorney in Manziels domestic violence case.
Johnny Manziels lead attorney Jim Darnell today confirmed to me withdrawal of associate counsel Bob Hinton from Manziel case.
Hintons text last week indicated Manziels legal team was seeking a plea deal with prosecutors but suggested that could be tricky.
Heaven help us if one of the conditions is to pee in a bottle the attorney wrote in the text message which was accidentally sent to the Associated Press.
Johnny Manziel and Colleen Crowley attended a Texas Rangers game in . FileThe Associated Press
Hinton told The Dallas Morning Newson Mondaythat he had removed himself fromthe case around noon. He had served as Manziels local counsel because Darnell is based in El Paso.
The text leaves me with no choice but to withdraw Hinton told The News. Its a disappointment but I dont want to be an interference.
Darnell could not be reached for comment. Manziel is accused of kidnapping hitting and threatening to kill his exgirlfriend Colleen Crowley in January at Hotel ZaZa in Uptown Dallas during a fight over another woman.
They broke up in December after dating for two years. Crowley told police that Manziel had invited her to his hotel room to talk and that he slapped her head rupturing her eardrum and causing her to lose her hearing.
She said he then dragged her by the hair and forced her into a car which he drove to Fort Worth where she lives.
He is charged with a misdemeanor and faces up to a year in the county jail if convicted. Michaels tweeted that Manziel has always planned to plead not guilty.
I dont know if the receipt is legitimate or not Hinton responded when asked about it by the AP. I just know that it doesnt say Johnnys name on it anywhere that I can see. Its just that somebody in that store I guess circulated that to the other store managers and employees saying Guess who was here today and spent this amount of money. Thats all I know.
Hinton also texted that he had met Wednesday morning with Jerry Varney a prosecutor and supervisor in the Dallas County district attorneys office who is handling the Manziel case.
He is very interested in working with us to arrive at some agreement in the case he wrote. A spokeswoman for the DAs office did not comment.
Defense attorneys Jim Darnell left and Bob Hinton returned to the defense table after approaching the bench as former Texas AM and Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel appeared before Judge Roberto Caas May at the Frank Crowley Courts Building in Dallas. Smiley N. PoolThe Dallas Morning News
A confidential text from one of Manziels lawyers Hinton to lead counsel Darnell was accidentally sent by Hinton to AP reporter.
Dallas police said Manziel reported that his car had been struck June in a hitandrun but Hinton said in the text that there was conflict as to whether Johnny reported it or not. Manziel was not seriously injured.
The errant text was sent Wednesday after the AP sought comment via text about thecrash. When asked about the text Hinton said he had meant to send it another attorney on the case and was unaware the AP had received it instead. He insisted the contents were protected by attorneyclient privilege and threatened to sue if certain details were published.
The text shows that Manziels attorneys are pushing for leniency even as they grapple with indications he could still be struggling with substance abuse more than a year after his stay in a rehab center.
The charges Manziel is facing come amid heightened scrutiny of legal cases involving professional athletes following domestic violence accusations against NFL players Ray Rice and former Dallas Cowboy Greg Hardy.
As the case has played out the Heisman winner at Texas AM has been photographed partying from Hollywood to Las Vegas to New York in recent months. And his own family members have expressed concern about his wellbeing after he was cut by the Browns this year following two underwhelming seasons.
Hes a druggie. Its not a secret that hes a druggie the elder Manziel told the sports network Friday. I dont know what to say other than my son is a druggie and he needs help. He just hasnt seeked it yet. Hopefully he doesnt die before he comes to his senses. Thats about all you can say. I dont know what else to say.
I hate to say it but I hope he goes to jail Paul Manziel added. I mean that would be the best place for him. So well see.
From a first round draft pick to benched and released by a mediocre Cleveland Browns team Johnny Manziel has done little to validate his Heisman Trophy status in the NFL. Now a Dallas County grand jury has indicted him after accusations he assaulted his former girlfriend. FileThe Associated Press
A man is accused ofrobbing two people nearLove Field and shootingat their carsbefore leading police on a chase late Saturday.
Police are investigating whether the man they arrested Corlin Donaldson wasinvolved in other recent thefts.
Hewill be charged with two counts of aggravated robbery. Police released no further details about the robberies Saturday night or what other crimes Donaldson might be suspected of.
Donaldson was previously convicted on multiple burglary charges and has pending charges of drug possession and unlawful possession of a firearm by a felon court records show.
A yearold boy was shot outside a community center late Friday after police were called to break up a party attended by hundreds of teenagers.
Witnesses later said the victim was shot by one of the first officers to arrive but Dallas police said investigators found no evidence to support the claim.
The injured teen identified as Vincent Warren underwent surgery Saturday and was expected to recover his family told KDFWTV Fox .
Outside they found the victim who was taken to a hospital. Police dispersed the crowd and started investigating the shooting.
About minutes later the officers were getting ready to leave when witnesses approached saying it was an officer who shot the yearold. 
Authorities say two people are dead and several others were wounded in a shooting outside a nonprofit dance studio early Saturday.
Six other shooting victims were taken to hospitals and one died at John Peter Smith Hospital in Fort Worth.
The dead were identified as Treavon Lewis and Jordan Larkin according to the Tarrant County medical examiners office.
Larkin graduated in May from North Crowley High School according to the Fort Worth StarTelegram and was described as a great kid by Rex Russell whose wife Jeanene Young Russell was one of Larkins high school teachers.
He was like a son to us said Russell. He spent last Christmas with us. We enjoyed having him around.
Russell said Larkin wasactive in ROTC at North Crowley and had hopes to join the military.
He really was a great kid. He would literally give the shirt off of his back to you Russell said.
Witnesses told police the incident started as an argument inside the studio and shots were fired as one man tried to run outside. Gunfire was also exchanged outside and from across the street.
Detectives are investigating whether the shooting was gangrelated and whether the party was authorized.
In a Facebook post Saturday Studio said it had no involvement with the incident.
Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families the post says. Please continue to pray for them.
Studio employee Jason Moore who lives in the back of the building told WFAATV Channel he let the group inside believing the had signed a contract and were allowed to be there.
They were charging at the door like it was a legit thing they had a metal detector at the door and everything Moore said.
When he heard the shots ring out Moore said he rushed people out of a side door of the studio. He tried to use a towel to compress the chest of one of the victims but it was too late he said. The victim had been shot in the lungs.
Laura Reyna the owner of the building and the nonprofit dance studio told theStarTelegramthat she and Moore were deceived by a mutual acquaintance who told Moore he had Reynas permission to open the studio doors for a party.
The studio Reyna said is a safehaven from the streets and primarily provides daytime dance lessons for children. Occasionally the space is used for events but there was no contract for the group to use the studio Friday night.
Anyone with information on the shooting is asked to call the homicide unit at or to remain anonymous call the Crime Stoppers hotline at .
Surveillance cameras captured these images of a man on the right robbing a Subway restaurant in Allen on Thursday night. Courtesy Allen Police
Allen police are hoping someone will recognize the gunman who robbed a Subway restaurant on Thursday night.
Police say the man entered the restaurant at State Highway at the intersection with North Watters Road in Allen just after p.m. He showed a gun to the employee and demanded cash from the register. Police say he drove off in a gray Chevy fourdoor vehicle before officers arrived.
The timestamp on the surveillance video shows the man in and out of the restaurant in less than a minute.
Anyone with information on this mans identity is asked to contact the Allen Police Department Criminal Investigation Division at . People wishing to remain anonymous can text their information to keyword ALLENPD at TIP.
Dallas police are asking the public for tips after the killing of a man Friday morning in southeast Dallas.
Police said a Ford Windstar minivan with tinted windows and a rear paper license plate was stolen from the scene.
Dallas police are asking anyone with information about the homicide to call them at or . Tipsters who want to remain anonymous can call Crime Stoppers at .
Crime Stoppers will pay up to for information that leads to the arrest and indictment of the killer.
Leiliana Wright died in the hospital in March from blunt force trauma to her stomach and head. In this photo taken earlier she has a black eye.
A Dallas County grand jury this week indicted a womanand her boyfriend who are accused of brutally beating the womans yearold daughter who later died.
Jeri Quezada and Charles Phifer have been in Dallas County Jail since April both charged with injury to a child. The indictment was handed up Monday.
On March Leiliana Wright was beaten with a belt and a bamboo stick tied up in a closet and thrown against a wall after the couple found the girl drinking her brothers juice police say.
Leiliana died in the hospital that day after being found unresponsive at the scene. Her cause of death was bluntforce trauma to her head and stomach and the autopsy also showed that she had whip marks across her back.
Quezada told police that her daughter was injured when she fell in the shower but the death was ruled a homicide.
Quezada and Phifer are known heroin users and court documents show that they used heroin throughout the day Leiliana allegedly was beaten.
Both suspectshave criminal records. Quezada pleaded guilty to a burglary charge in andPhifer pleaded guilty to possession of a controlled substance in and .
Leilianasdeath came amid allegations that Child Protective Services had repeatedly overlooked and underserved many alleged cases of child abuse.
Before the girl died grandmother Alisa Clakley sent pictures of bruising on the childs face to CPS. After Leiliana died the caseworker and supervisor on hercase were fired and a special investigator resigned.
If we had done something sooner I dont know. I dont know Clakley told KXASTV NBC.
Criminal justice reporters editors and invited guests provide news and analysis impacting Dallasarea police courts fire and other public safety issues and entities. Readers are encouraged to join the conversation.
Crime news from Birmingham and the West Midlands. See the latest police appeals and crime stories along with indepth features. West Midlands Police covers Birmingham Coventry Dudley Sandwell Solihull Walsall and Wolverhampton while Staffordshire Police and Warwickshire Police cover adjoining areas and West Mercia Police is responsible for Shropshire Herefordshire and Worcestershire.
Reg Keys whose son Tom died in aged believes former Prime Minister Tony Blair should be punished for his part in the war
Attack was assault on democracy and measures taken to protect elected Members of Parliament
Crime commissioner says members of the public have raised concerns over incidents
Labour cabinet member hits out at police after being told your life is over on social media
James Gibson was behind a . billion smuggling network which was smashed in Midland swoop
Police intercepted fake vehicle containing million heroin and cocaine in Smethwick
Dad of tragic Tom Keys speaks of his anger that former PM will not be prosecuted
West Midlands Police looking to find the people in these CCTV images can you help
Mohammed Islam and a female accomplice had lured victim to Birmingham flat
Exmember Nigel Bromage claims feared group targeting people with influence after Brexit
Data shows that saw a decrease in the number of collisions issued but are speeding cameras to thank
Solihull entrepreneur says thug verbally abused him while in his Rolls Royce 
Disturbing details from the frightening ordeal have emerged after radio personality Trish Adudu speaks out
says Bishop of Birmingham as community and faith groups join forces on new grass roots campaign 
West Mercia Police says it has quizzed yearold man but he is not an officer 
Four men brought misery across region in breakin spree which saw jewellery worth 
In one case James Franklin stole bag followed victim home and ransacked property
We reach over unique users a month with dedicated coverage of Birmingham and the West Midlands.
Over of our visitors who view over m page impressions every month are in the desirable ABC socioeconomic groups.
The Birmingham Mail is part of Trinity Mirror Midlands offering you unique access to our audience across the region online and in print.
Marc Reeves is the editor of the Birmingham Mail and the Birmingham Post and has worked in regional media in the Midlands and across the UK for more than years.
This site contains content from artists fans and writers from around the internet in its natural form. Such content is not representative of Viacom Media Networks.
Viacom International Inc. All Rights Reserved. MTV and all related titles and logos are trademarks of Viacom International Inc.
The death of a woman whose body was found after an explosion which destroyed a house is being treated as murder police have said.
Shelley SaxtonCooper and her husband Simon were found inside a bedroom at the home in Riddings Derbyshire.
Postmortem examinations have yet to take place but Mrs SaxtonCooper was wounded before the blast police said.
The couple has not been formally identified but police said they believe the bodies are those of Mr and Mrs SaxtonCooper.
Were still unable to say how either she or her husband died as post mortem examinations havent been completed.
Forensic experts remain on scene investigating the cause of the fire she added.
But they had to wait for the building to be declared safe after the fire destroyed much of the roof.
Jayne Titchmarsh who lives two doors away said the blast was like a loud thunder.
I ran to the window and saw debris coming down across the window and there were flames on the front she said.
I just couldnt believe it. The fire really took off. Everyone was shouting get out get out and I just ran with my son because we thought it was going to catch light.
A pet dog which escaped the blast is being looked after by relatives of the couple.
The UKs Iraq War inquiry says Tony Blair overstated Saddam Husseins threat sent illprepared troops into battle and had wholly inadequate plans for the aftermath.
WHILE we await the lower house results with bated breath its the Senate results that really underscore how volatile Australias position is right now.
A LINDT Caf siege sniper has told of the moment he saw hostage Tori Johnson executed and revealed why he didnt take a shot.
GALES are expected to batter parts of the east coast today and overnight with warnings of gusts of up to kmh and flash flooding.
THE Melbourne hipster who went viral in one night has given another glorious interview and his answers get better. 
WHILE we await the lower house results with bated breath its the Senate results that really underscore how volatile Australias position is right now.
THE Australian Electoral Commission has defended its slow vote count and results which has left many voters confused.
IF Turnbull thinks he only needs to woo the crossbenchers for form government he might choose not to read this.
REBECCA Butterfield wont be released when her prison sentence expires. Instead shell serve five more years because the Supreme Court says shes too dangerous.
THERE has been a shocking twist in the case of three children found injured in Melbourne. Now the homicide squad are at their home with shovels.
A CHANCE meeting between an estranged father and his son in a Brisbane street has ended in the fathers death. Charges against the son have been upgraded.
THE man accused of a one punch attack that has left his father fighting for life and has appeared in court where he cried out I love you Mum.
MASON Lee was only monthsold when he died. Covered in serious injuries police say they would have been inflicted over a long time. Who did it
A LINDT Caf siege sniper has told of the moment he saw hostage Tori Johnson executed and revealed why he didnt take a shot.
THE deputy tactical commander during the Sydney siege has spoken through tears about the moment the emergency action plan was initiated.
HE CAUSED gridlock in Sydney by climbing onto the Harbour Bridge. Now he is about to have his day in court.
MALCOLM Turnbull faces a barrage of problems if he scrapes home in the federal election Bill Shorten says. 
LYONS MP Eric Hutchinsons hopes of holding onto his seat have taken a battering after the first round of postal votes were counted yesterday.
COUNTING of postal votes in the electorate of Lyons has been undertaken by the Australian Electoral Commission.
GALES are expected to batter parts of the east coast today and overnight with warnings of gusts of up to kmh and flash flooding.
HARRIET Wran the daughter of former NSW premier Neville Wran has pleaded guilty to a lesser crime after her murder charge was dropped.
A LINDT Caf siege sniper has told of the moment he saw hostage Tori Johnson executed and revealed why he didnt take a shot.
A GOLD Coast tradie walked off site when he got the lifechanging news that he had scooped the entire million Oz Lotto prize pool.
A PAIR of prisoners have ended their rooftop protest without getting the one thing they demanded to speak with A Current Affair host Tracy Grimshaw.
A CHANCE meeting between an estranged father and his son in a Brisbane street has ended in the fathers death. Charges against the son have been upgraded.
THE Melbourne hipster who went viral in one night has given another glorious interview and his answers get better. 
A CAR which ploughed into a Melbourne lake killing three children inside was deliberately driven into the water a collision investigator believes. 
THERE has been a shocking twist in the case of three children found injured in Melbourne. Now the homicide squad are at their home with shovels.
DOGS and cats will soon have to be microchipped and desexed following a major overhaul to state laws aimed at reducing the number of animals being euthanased each year.
FIREFIGHTERS have contained a blaze in a factory in Adelaides west but not before the buildings roof collapsed. SEE THE IMAGES
ATTRACTING defence companies to South Australia and upgrading shipbuilding facilities will be made easier through an almost million funding package in Thursdays State Budget.
POLICE want to speak to three good Samaritans who helped a man left unconscious after a serious assault in Bunbury last month. 
THE ACCC has warned companies that refuse to pay subcontractors that it will take them to court amid growing complaints on major projects in WA.
THE West Coast Eagles will begin work on their new home at Lathlain Park at the end of August after being given the green light by the Town of Victoria Park.
REGISTRATIONS are now open for the second season of the Million Dollar Fish competition
THE State Government hopes to lure a bus manufacturer to set up shop here to build new Metro Tasmania buses.
THE Midland Highway has been cleared after a twovehicle crash south of Campbell Town.
STAFF at a Hobart aged care facility are considering industrial action over their working conditions and dealings with management.
Plantation fire officials say a gas bottle thrown at a vehicle at NW th Court began this fire. An arson investigation was taking place the fire department said.
Plantation fire officials say a gas bottle thrown at a vehicle at NW th Court began this fire. An arson investigation was taking place the fire department said.
An arson investigation was underway after a vehicle was set ablaze by a gas bottle that was thrown at it officials said. According to the Plantation Fire Department the incident happened during the overnight hours at an apartment complex at NW Ct. Fire officials tweeted a picture of the.
Foul play is not suspected after a mans burnt corpse was discovered Monday along one of Pembroke Pines busiest thoroughfares police said. Based on evidence gathered so far the incident did not appear to be criminal Pembroke Pines police said in a statement released Tuesday afternoon. The cause.
Firefighters answering a call about a mannequin on fire outside a craft store in Pembroke Pines early Monday found something more disturbing a dead person. According to Pembroke Pines police shortly before a.m. someone called to report that a mannequin was on fire near Michaels an arts.
A Fort Lauderdale man is facing sex charges after being accused of impregnating a yearold then fleeing to Haiti authorities said. Raymond Vincent was arrested Friday and charged with one count of sexual battery on a child and one count of lewd and lascivious conduct. U.S. marshals flew.
It wasnt an email from a foreign prince or some other royal promising instant wealth but it was a message from a yearold Margate woman posing as the owner of a car dealership asking for a wire transfer. And she got it police say twice. Sharon Dopwells wealth grew by nearly according.
Palm Beach Gardens police on Wednesday released the call that former officer Nouman Raja placed last year in the shooting and killing of stranded motorist Corey Jones. The call has been released a month after Raja was arrested and charged in Jones killing. The call recorded on Oct. starts.
No one could ever accuse Gary Czajkowski of giving cheap gifts. There was a Breitling wristwatch. A Caribbean cruise. Handfuls of gift cards. Tickets to NASCAR races in Homestead. The Palm Beach County utility contractor said its his nature to be generous so it made him feel.
A man sexually abused his yearold roommate who has Parkinsons disease at a Lantana nursing home police said and later told detectives he was just horsing around. Louis Lawson was arrested Wednesday. According to Lantana Police a nurse went into the mens room Nov. and saw Lawson.
Police say thieves busted their way into sixty cars along the Congress Avenue corridor early Thursday. The thieves even made off with two pickup trucks. Police recovered one of the vehicles a Dodge Ram abandoned and heavily damaged along I and Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard. Sun Sentinel.
Davie police released surveillance footage showing two men who are accused of robbing a man outside a Davie restaurant on Wednesday.
Davie police released surveillance footage showing two men who are accused of robbing a man outside a Davie restaurant on Wednesday.
Davie Police are looking for two men accused of robbing a man who wanted to buy cellphones through a Craigslist advertisement. It happened Wednesday afternoon when the prospective buyer met the two men at Robs Family BBQ W. State Rd. . police said. Instead of pulling out a cellphone.
A woman accused of killing her two children was found not competent to stand trial and will be hospitalized until she is sufficiently well for prosecution to proceed a Broward County judge ruled Wednesday. My client is suffering and needs to go to a hospital Assistant Public Defender Betsy.
Scott Olivier thought the moments after he pulled up to a Lake Worth stoplight could be his last. The driver beside him had fired a shot into his pickup truck. Olivier of Lakeland wasnt hit but the bullet pierced his Ford F and hit the engine stalling the pickup truck as the other.
A diversion program for teenagers addicted to drugs that helps them transform their lives celebrated its th graduation on May . In her courtroom in the main Broward County courthouse in Fort Lauderdale Judge Sharon Zeller sits beneath a poster that reads Every new day is another chance to.
Cloudy skies early followed by partial clearing. A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible. High F. Winds W at to mph..
Partly cloudy skies. A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible. Low near F. Winds WSW at to mph.
SPRING LAKE Angry residents had pointed questions and complaints on Tuesday for Spring Lake Mayor Chris Rey a week after a scathing audit of the towns finances was made public.
The Fayetteville market is unique. Thousands of families come and go each year because of Fort Bragg making it difficult for any sm
You could tell Alexander Awoyomi had put some thought into the colorful outdoor classroom he and other students at Grays Creek Elementary School helped create.
EL SEGUNDO Calif. Until a couple of months ago Brandon Ingrams new locker at the Los Angeles Lakers training complex was occupied by Kobe Bryant.
In the weeks leading up to the Olympics I always look forward to reading stories about what Olympians eat. What many of the athletes have in common is a favorite healthy snack that gives them an intense burst of energy.
It was by Major League Baseball standards a pretty small crowd for a big holiday game. But
A coal ash bill that passed last week in the legislature will result in an almost fouryear 
When time ran out on Marc Vanovers permit for a riverfront junkyard the clock reset for th
Cheers to Kimberly Lewis who works at Walmart on Murchison Road. I had lost and it was 
I will have an analysis piece soon about Purple North Carolina and why we might be the mo
Enter to win four tickets to see a Fayetteville SwampDogs baseball game. Were giving away dozens of tickets all summer long
Were giving away in cash furniture home decor a patio umbrella a YETI cooler and more Enter all eight of the contests for a chance to win.
A yearold Broadmeadows man is remanded to face court charged with the murder of a woman and the alleged assault of three children.
Disgraced Paralympian Oscar Pistorius has been sentenced to six years jail for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago.
Disgraced Paralympian Oscar Pistorius is sentenced to six years jail for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp three years ago.
New South Wales police question people after nine search warrants are served simultaneously in centralwestern New South Wales. 
A man who stole three cars and evaded authorities in three hours of anarchy that stretched from the New South Wales border to the suburbs of Brisbane remains on the run police say.
A couple tormented neglected and abused their children by slamming their fingers in doors beating them with a whip and locking them outdoors overnight an Adelaide court hears.
Police are appealing for public assistance after a series of incidents where a man stole cars and fled from police from the NSW border to South Brisbane.
A police sniper who witnessed the execution of Lindt cafe manager Tori Johnson by gunman Man Haron Monis said he was unable to shoot Monis because he could not see him.
Lying on the ground after being shot times Derrick McManus knew he must survive. The former police officer now lectures groups on the durability of human performance.
An opportunistic sexual offender who groped girls on Adelaide buses is jailed.
Two families in Melbournes northwest are terrorised by intruders during earlymorning home invasions that appear to have targeted latemodel cars.
A man who was once acquitted of major terrorism offences is questioned in connection with the murder of a woman whose body was found in Melbournes north last month.
A man who flew into Australia from Tokyo and complained about feeling unwell is in a serious condition in hospital after suspected prohibited drugs were removed from his body during surgery police say.
A irate man from Humpty Doo calls police to complain that his father destroyed his cannabis plants during a domestic dispute.
Two men are arrested by police over a hitandrun incident where a man was dragged under a van in Norwood on Sunday.
There was a heavy police presence compulsory registration and bag checks at last nights meeting of Sydneys newlymerged Inner West Council.
Five people are committed to stand trial over drug cultivation and other offences following a raid near Taree last year where a young boy was found locked up. 
A man has been refused bail in the Dubbo Local Court after being charged with aggravated carjacking using a weapon to avoid apprehension and stealing a motor vehicle.
A man jailed for shooting dead a police officer in the s has been caught by police after escaping from a prerelease centre in Adelaides north.
The lawyer for a public servant who pleaded guilty to a dishonesty offence says four free iPads were not an inducement to order more than worth of printer cartridges.
A woman carjacked and forced to drive at knifepoint escapes her captor after stopping her vehicle outside a nearby police station and running inside for help.
A yearold man has been charged by police after lethal endangered and exotic reptiles from different native species were seized in Baldivis south of Perth. The reptiles included tiger snakes a dugite a mulga snake various species of python and a water dragon.
Police are called to a shopping strip in Kew after a womans body is found on a High Street property.
This service may include material from Agence FrancePresse AFP APTN Reuters AAP CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST Australian Eastern Standard Time which is hours ahead of UTC Greenwich Mean Time
There are some deep problems were dealing with here a Multnomah County judge told neighbors. While youre at ground zero its a community issue in a citywide sense.
The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used
WASHINGTON AP The U.S. will slow the pace of its troop drawdown in Afghanistan leaving troops there when President Barack Obama c
DALLAS AP Former U.S. President George W. Bush is bicycling with wounded veterans on the same day a British inquiry has been released on
That contract also spells out required response times for three categories of calls.
Rural Metros new regional director makes changes aimed at improving ambulance response times in Buffalo
Buffalo Bills fans have a bit of a rowdy reputation due to certain antics that have been captured on video especially this past season. Tho
The yearold spent five seasons as an assistant with the Washington Capitals and the Anaheim Ducks prior to his last stop as head coach a
If convicted of the charges against him Austin could spend a maximum of years in prison.
His blood alcohol content was . percent more than three times the legal alcohol limit according to Troopers.
Buffalo Police have a new specialized team trained to keep the peace during civil disorder.
One person is dead and four others hurt after four separate shootings on Buffalos East side. Police say over the holiday weekend they some
Deputies say they noticed Jamestown resident Amber Rasmussen speeding through the Village of Mayville shortly before midnight on Sunday
Starting in April authorities say Kevin Fox created multiple online personas and began using new phone numbers to threaten and obtain 
State Police believe this to be a homicide but it is not clear who the victim is.
As deputies were checking out the scene they say a man ran from the building. He was later identified as yearold Sean OConnor.
She was jailed in Wyoming County on bail and will return to court in September.
A man from South Carolina is charged with shoplifting after deputies say he hid three packages of meat in his shorts at a grocery store.
Police are currently interviewing witnesses and believe that the victim and shooter knew each other.
The driver was hospitalized with nonlife threatening injuries. It is not yet clear what charges they will be facing.
Neighbors said theyre concerned about the loitering outside of the corner store and many call it a drug corner.
Police are still looking for the driver in a silver car with outoftown plates.
A brawl between two women in a Niagara County KMart store ended with one woman stabbed in the face.
If convicted of the charges against him Austin could spend a maximum of years in prison.
LIN Television Corporation a Media General company. All rights reserved.
The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used
One year ago on June th Dr. Teresa Sievers was found dead in her Bonita Springs home.
Attorneys for Mark Sievers filed a motion Monday to strike the states death penalty notice arguing the state didnt properly file it.
Court documents released Friday in the Mark Sievers case show Sievers has requested access to a codefendants testimony and to his wifes cell phone data.
The State Attorneys Office filed notice Wednesday that it will seek the death penalty against both Mark Sievers and Jimmy Ray Rodgers in connection with the June death of Sievers wife Teresa.
Hes already accused of paying his best friend to murder his wife. And now Mark Sievers no longer had any say in what happens to the two daughters he had with slain Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers.
Who murdered Teresa Sievers Thats the question a lawyer asked Mark Sievers on Wednesday at the Lee County Justice Complex.
Two men accused of involvement in the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers were back in court on Wednesday.
Discovery documents released Tuesday by the State Attorneys Office provide a glimpse into the intimate life of slain Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers and her husband Mark.
The two daughters of Mark Sievers will stay in the custody of their maternal grandmother.
Accusations flew across a Lee County courtroom on Wednesday in the latest stage of an ongoing custody dispute thatll determine who takes care of the daughters of Mark and Teresa Sievers.
Two of the men accused in the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers faced a judge on Monday afternoon.
The husband of slain Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers went before a judge Friday morning in his first appearance since a grand jury upped a murder charge against him.
The firstdegree murder indictments handed up by a Lee County grand jury this week would ensure Mark Sievers and Jimmy Rodgers would at least spend their lives in prison if convicted.
New attorneys for Mark Sievers filed a motion Thursday to again declare him as indigent.
A judge denied a motion Thursday to reduce Mark Sievers bond on a seconddegree murder charge.
An attorney representing Mark Sievers is contesting a petition by the Department of Children and Families that would essentially remove Sievers parental rights when it comes to his two young daughters.
A bondreduction hearing for accused murderforhire plotter Mark Sievers is scheduled for next week.
The daughters of Mark and Teresa Sievers will remain in the custody of their maternal grandmother for now.
Mary Ann Groves the mother of slain Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers has petitioned for temporary custody of the two children her daughter had with her husband Mark Sievers.
The Faga Law Group is getting its feet wet in a case thats garnered international attention.
The man accused of orchestrating his wifes gruesome murder has new representation.
Mark Sievers was previously represented by private attorney Lee Hollander. Hollander and Sievers parted ways in midMarch leaving Sievers without an attorney.
A hearing was continued until next month to decide who will get custody of the daughters of a Bonita Springs doctor who was found murdered in her Jarvis Road home last summer.
One of three men in custody in connection with the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers has entered a written plea of not guilty.
A year friend of Mark Sievers may have played a key role in his arrest last week.
A judge granted Mark Sievers phone contact with his two daughters during a hearing Monday morning.
NBC has confirmed Jimmy Rodgers one of the men accused of killing Bonita Springs Dr. Teresa Sievers is in custody atthe Naples Jail.
After his first night in the Lee County Jail Mark Sievers made his first appearance Saturday morning still handcuffed wearing a secure suit around his body and with two guards at his side.
NBC has an exclusive interview with Sandra Hoskins a longtime friend coworker and confidant of Dr. Teresa Sievers.She tells us the moment she first grew suspicious of Teresas husband Mark.
Mark Sievers the husband of slain Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers was taken into custody at his home Friday after a warrant was issued for his arrest.
A judge decided Wednesday morning that theres no chance Jimmy Rodgers the second man accused of involvement in the killing of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers will leave the Lee County Jail until he stands trial for her murder.
One of the men accused of killing Dr. Teresa Sievers is in Southwest Florida to answer charges.
One of the men accused in the killing of a Bonita Springs doctor will soon be released from federal custody which means hell be in Lee County to face a murder charge.
For the first time we are getting new insight into the marriage of Mark and Teresa Sievers. By all appearances the two seemed to be the perfect couple.But new video released this week paints a much different picture.
The State Attorneys Office released videos on Wednesday pertaining to the murder investigation of Bonita Springs doctorTeresa Sievers.
Materials released by the State Attorneys Office on Thursday are painting a picture of the final days of Teresa Sievers life.
The Teresa Sievers murder case has gripped Southwest Florida for months and yielded nearly pages of investigative evidence.
Curtis Wayne Wright the first suspect in the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers to go through the legal system in Lee County made a brief appearance Wednesday for a case management hearing.
The men accused of the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers Curtis Wayne Wright and Jimmy Rodgers met while behind bars in their home state of Missouri according to Rodgers girlfriend.
Attorneys for one of the men implicated in the murder of Bonita Springs doctor Teresa Sievers will be in a Lee County courtroom this week.
Lee Hollander says the LCSO assessment of information recently released via thousands of pages of documents may not be the right one.
Mark Sievers kept custody of his two daughters Friday after a judge at a shelter hearing requested by the Department of Children and Families ordered the two sides to return on Monday.
A murderforhire plot New details continue to surface in one of Southwest Floridas mostwatched murder cases.
Court documents revealed Mark Sievers husband of murdered Bonita Springs Dr. Teresa Sievers had nearly million in life insurance policies available in connection with his wife. It also states Mark Sievers has not cooperated with the investigation since early July.
A tax lien of more than has been filed with the Lee County clerk of courts on the Bonita Springs home where Dr. Teresa Sievers was murdered.
An attorney for one of the men accused of killing Dr. Teresa Sievers will be back in court Monday.
For the very first time were hearing from the mother of murdered Bonita Springs Doctor Teresa Sievers.
Authorities are investigating a message scrawled on the outside wall of a Central Avenue church that neighbors said mentioned ISIS.
Authorities are investigating a message scrawled on the outside wall of a Central Avenue church that neighbors said mentioned ISIS.
A routine traffic stop Sunday in Fort Myers led to the arrest of a man wanted in Orlando.
A routine traffic stop Sunday in Fort Myers led to the arrest of a man wanted in Orlando.
NBC is learning new information about four brothels busted in Lee and Collier counties that authorities saidare all part of a massive human trafficking ring.
NBC is learning new information about four brothels busted in Lee and Collier counties that authorities saidare all part of a massive human trafficking ring.
A rash of car breakins happened overnight Thursday in Lehigh Acres. More than a dozen vehicles many reportedly unlocked were targeted off Milwaukee Boulevard.
A rash of car breakins happened overnight Thursday in Lehigh Acres. More than a dozen vehicles many reportedly unlocked were targeted off Milwaukee Boulevard.
A Fort Myers man was arrested for allegedly selling two vehicles using fraudulent means causing the buyers to have those vehicles repossessed.
A Fort Myers man was arrested for allegedly selling two vehicles using fraudulent means causing the buyers to have those vehicles repossessed.
Independence Day weekend is approaching and many people celebrating the holiday will be hitting the road.
Independence Day weekend is approaching and many people celebrating the holiday will be hitting the road.
Florida legislators passed bills during this years session three months ago and of them take effect on Friday with the start of the states fiscal year affecting school choice rape kit testing tax cuts and many more aspects of life in the Sunshine State.
Florida legislators passed bills during this years session three months ago and of them take effect on Friday with the start of the states fiscal year affecting school choice rape kit testing tax cuts and many more aspects of life in the Sunshine State.
If you know anything about these fugitives you can earn up to by calling Crime Stoppers at TIPS.
If you know anything about these fugitives you can earn up to by calling Crime Stoppers at TIPS.
Southwest Florida Crime Stoppers is searching for two men who broke into a Lehigh Acres home during broad daylight earlier this month.
Southwest Florida Crime Stoppers is searching for two men who broke into a Lehigh Acres home during broad daylight earlier this month.
The family of a yearold girl who was hit and killed on Saturday night while riding a tricycle wants the incident to be further examined.
The family of a yearold girl who was hit and killed on Saturday night while riding a tricycle wants the incident to be further examined.
A popular summer spot in Southwest Florida will be closed Wednesday after an early morning fire ripped through the parks main building.
Toxic bluegreen algae growing in Martin and St. Lucie Counties is making national news but its also confusing tourists traveling to beaches in Lee County.
A new Florida law aims to help drug addicts get the help they need by simply asking for it.
A shotgun blast through the wall of a Collier County home missed a woman living there by inches.
Alton Sterling a yearold black man was shot to death as he lay on the ground with two police officers on top of him Tuesday morning.
A Lee County deputy was hit by a vehicle early Wednesday morning off Bonita Beach Road in Lee County.
An Illinois man arrested after he posted a picture of himself burning an American flag over the holiday weekend will not be charged a states attorney said Tuesday.
All content Copyright Frankly Media and . All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site please read our Privacy Policy Terms of Service and Ad Choices.
Guests at a luxury hotel where two people were found dead in a swimming pool thought investigating police were part of a murder mystery party. 
The man in his s and woman in her early s were found in their swimming costumes when they were pulled from the bottom of the pool by staff staff at the fourstar Down Hall Hotel on Saturday.
However the man in his early s and the woman who was in her early s were pronounced dead at the scene.
A policeman stands guard at the Down Hall Country House Hotel in Essex where the couple were discovered dead in the swimming pool on Saturday night
Mr Kpakiwa had been taking his girlfriend Josephine Foday on a surprise weekend away for her nd birthday
A picture posted on Twitter by a hotel guest showed the swimming pool area cordoned off by police
The hotel regularly hosts murder mystery weekends and some guests reportedly believed that the arrival of police was part of the package. 
Jo Carter and Frankie Heritage checked in yesterday afternoon for their first ever murder mystery and believed the whole crime scene had been staged.
We have never done a murder mystery before so we just thought theyd gone to a lot of expense.
It all just seemed to be part of the weekend with a policemen and a van at the gate.
It was only when we spoke to him the police officer and he explained that it would be much too expensive to stage with real police cars that we realised.
All the guests were talking over dinner about how it could have happened as it is a real life mystery.
The air ambulance helicopter was summoned to the acre estate but paramedics could not resuscitate the man and woman. 
Police said the pair from London checked in at the anight hotel together but could not confirm if they were a couple.
The hotel just pulled a curtain to separate us and the party still went on as normal. 
The hotel on the Hertfordshire border is a popular wedding venue. Jade Goody tied the knot there in 
Chief Inspector Nick Lee said his officers had found two people submersed in the pool. 
Postmortem examinations are expected to take place today and the coroner has been informed.
Down Hall Hotel is a popular wedding venue. It was used by Big Brother star Jade Goody when she married Jack Tweed.
It was used as a convalescent home for wounded soldiers in the First World War and was turned into a hotel in the s.
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
The owner of this website www.siasat.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature befafdfua.
Michael Adebolajo is given a wholelife term and Michael Adebowale is jailed for a minimum of years for the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby in Woolwich.
Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale are found guilty of the murder of soldier Lee Rigby in Woolwich southeast London in May.
Three Homestead Job Corps students have confessed to a plot to lure a teen to the woods where he was repeatedly hacked with a machete and forced into a shallow grave as he lay mortally wounded police revealed on Wednesday.
The sickening details were included in an arrest report for a fourth student Desiray Strickland who was detained on Wednesday and charged with her alleged role in the savage June murder of yearold Jose Amaya Guardado.
The arrest report reads like a scene from the classic novel Lord of the Flies. During the carnage Strickland complained that she had missed the first series of machete strikes because she had walked away for a few minutes to urinate in the woods according to the arrest report.
After the group of students buried Jose and cleaned up the bloody scene Strickland and accused ringleader Kaheem Arbelo stayed in the woods to have sex before returning to the Job Corps campus the report said.
MiamiDade police homicide detectives last week arrested Arbelo a suspected drug dealer at the school Jonathan Lucas and Christian Colon . A fifth suspect is expected to be arrested in the coming days.
Law enforcement sources have described the students as part of a group of bullies within the federally operated school. Investigators believe the killing may have stemmed from a debt that the victim owed to Arbelo.
The four are now being held in MiamiDade jails to await trial on charges of seconddegree murder. All of them are adults meaning they could be eligible for indictment for firstdegree murder and the death penalty.
All of the young people including Guardado were students at Homestead Job Corps a livein school and vocational training program run by the U.S. Department of Labor.
The program helps young people get their high school diplomas and learn job skills ranging from masonry to office administration. Job Corps designed for atrisk students between the ages of and runs campuses across the country.
In a statement released on Wednesday a Labor department spokesman said safety and security is our top priority.
Steps already have been taken to strengthen security at the Homestead center and Job Corps is reviewing safety and security at all its centers said spokesman Stephen Barr.
He said the department was deeply saddened by Joses death and would be offering grief counseling to other students.
Jose went missing on June and relatives had searched for him throughout South MiamiDade. His brother later found the body buried in the woods not far from the Job Corps facility. Relatives described Jose as a peaceful boy who worked at a flea market selling ice cream.
Strickland of Miami Gardens refused to cooperate with MiamiDade detectives when detained on Wednesday. According to police she shoved an investigator headbutted his chest and flailed about before she was shackled in an interview room.
She also used screws from an electrical outlet to try and pick her handcuffs then scrawled MPD Go to Hell on a table the report said. Strickland also was charged with resisting an officer with violence battery on an officer and criminal mischief.
Arbelo Lucas and Colon all confessed in videorecorded statements when they were detained last week according to MiamiDade police. The arrest warrants detailing their arrests remain sealed by the court.
According to Stricklands arrest report the group conspired to plan the murder about two weeks before the killing of the bespectacled teen. A few days before the murder the group even dug the grave and hid a machete in the brush MiamiDade Detective Juan Segovia wrote in the arrest report.
On the night of June they lured Jose to the woods and ambushed the victim with blows that caused massive injuries. As he was dying the students ordered Jose to lie in the grave.
The victim made one last attempt to fight off the attackers the detective wrote at which time Arbelo struck the victim with the machete several more times until the victims face caved in.
The group buried Jose then wiped blood off a nearby fence before burning the dead teens belongings and their own clothes. They also got rid of the machete and the shovel Segovia wrote.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
Only US network to feature graphic video showing Muadh alKasasbeh burning to death. Twitter accounts associated with Isis supporters are sharing video via links to Fox News
Fox News has chosen to embed on its website the video of Islamic State burning a hostage to death a move which makes them the only US media organisation to broadcast the video in full.
The extremely graphic minute video shows Muadh alKasasbeh a Jordanian pilot being set on fire and burned to death in a cage. Fox News did not post the videos of the killings of previous Isis hostages and no other media company has hosted this video. 
On Twitter accounts associated with Isis supporters are sharing the video via the links to the Fox News site. One account which regularly posts proIsis slogans and updates about Islamic State victories in battle tweeted boastfully that Whoever is looking for the alFurqan version of the video here it is and it cannot be deleted because it is on an American network. AlFurqan is Isis media outlet.
YouTube removed a link to the video a few hours after it was posted and a spokesperson for Facebook told the Guardian that if anyone posted the video to the social networking site it would be taken down.
Several news organizations used still images from the video in their news stories both in print and online including the Daily Mail the New York Daily News and the New York Post which also used an image of Kasasbeh on fire for the front page of their evening edition.
The television networks decision to host the footage drew criticism from terrorism analysts. 
Malcolm Nance the executive director of the Terror Asymmetrics Project on Strategy Tactics and Radical Ideology thinktank and an expert on counterterrorism and radical extremism told the Guardian that by posting the video Fox News was propagating exactly what Isis wants to propagate.
Rick Nelson a senior associate in homeland security and terrorism at the Center for Strategic and International Studies said that posting the video actually empowers Isis.
Theyre a terror organisation he said. They seek to strike terror in the hearts and minds of people globally and by perpetuating these videos and putting them out there into the internet it certainly expands the audience and potential effects.
Nance told the Guardian that showing the video would also further endanger other hostages including the yearold American aid worker currently held by the militant group.
Fox News are literally literally working for alQaida and Isiss media arm he added.
A teen killed in a hitrun crash in northern Tulare County has been identified as yearold Matthew William Swepston of Squaw Valley.
A yearold Firebaugh woman died just before midnight Monday after she was shot in the chest during a cartocar gunfight between rival gangs on the outskirts of Dos Palos earlier in the day the Merced County Sheriffs Office confirmed.
A Hanford boy and three girls are under arrest after they allegedly stole a vehicle on the Fourth of July and took it on a joyride that ended in a highspeed chase and crash.
Confidential Clovis police documents concerning one of four officers involved in the alleged September beating of a motorcyclist should be made public a federal judge ruled Thursday in U.S. District Court. 
A Squaw Valley teenager was killed in a hitandrun crash on a rural road east of Orange Cove on Sunday morning the California Highway Patrol said.
A yearold boy was arrested Saturday in the Friday night stabbing at the Regal Cinemas movie theater at Manchester Center the Fresno Police Department said.
A teen was stabbed during an altercation among several teenagers Friday night at the Regal Cinemas Manchester in central Fresno Lt. Mindy Casto said. 
A Fresno man was found guilty on Wednesday by a federal jury on two counts of receiving and distributing child pornography acting United States Attorney Phillip A. Talbert announced.
A gang member in possession of a gun was arrested by Fresno police as part of an undercover operation in the Tower District Sgt. Robert Gonzales said Friday.
Holding back tears former Fresno police officer Jesse Joe Ruelas told a jury Friday in his misdemeanor child abuse trial that that he wasnt proud of yelling profanities at his teenage daughter and slapping her face but he said it was the only way to stop her from cursing badgering and blaming him for the familys breakup.
Mendota police say a man who may have sold drugs was arrested Thursday after witnesses saw him threaten another adult with a handgun. The incident occurred in the block of Sixth Street.
Details about what happened Friday morning July at Fresnos Courthouse Park where a man opened fire and victim was wounded. A suspect was arrested minutes later.
Fresno police take into custody a man suspected in a domesticviolence shooting at downtowns Courthouse Park on Friday July . Police Chief Jerry Dyer took part in the arrest.
Fresno police Friday morning arrested a man involved in an alleged domestic violence shooting in Courthouse Park.
A man riding a bicycle in Visalia was found in the road with gunshot wounds police say. 
One woman was injured during a driveby shooting on Thursday at Woodrow Wilson school in Hanford. 
A stabbing victim was taken to the hospital with nonlifethreatening injuries after a fight between neighbors in northeast Fresno on Thursday night the Fresno Police Department said.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
Daquan Bradley is accused of shooting yearold Mario McGee in south Minneapolis.
It is all part of what she calls MPD ..
Thoresen is accused of decapitating Haiman on June .
The most recent theft happened Saturday morning at Jonny Rock Bikes in Hopkins.
Police say the shooting was not random and a suspect and handgun were found at the scene.
Recognizing the need for a uniform national set of crime statistics reliable for analysis the FBIs Uniform Crime Reporting UCR program was developed in the s. It is reported that the first UCR document in January reflected data from cities in states covering more than million individuals approximately twenty percent of the total U.S. population. In law enforcement agencies active in the UCR Program represented more than million United States inhabitants. percent of the total population. As a result the function of crime analysis became more widely accepted. 
The study of crime reports arrest reports and calls for police service were all used to identify emerging patterns suspects and trends as quickly as possible. The analysis of this and other data to determine relevant factors to sometimes predict or forecast future occurrences was of great benefit in issuing analytical reports or intelligence bulletins to various elements of the department. Using such reports managers at all levels can better develop effective strategies and tactics to address crime and disorder.
The MNPD has compiled and reported crime statistics in the UCR or traditional summary format since the City of Nashville and Davidson County governments merged in . A modern crime analysis function has existed within the MNPD since and with the advent of mobile data computers automated field reporting and other advances in technology continues to evolve.
The MNPD collects and reports data in both the FBIs Uniform Crime Reporting UCR program and the National IncidentBased Reporting System NIBRS. These two reporting methodologies collect a vast amount of material that can be accessed by the general public researchers media and others regarding the levels of crime in the United States. 
NIBRS based data is reported by the MNPD to the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation. The MNPD chooses to publicly disseminate crime data in the UCR format. In the United States UCR crime reporting has existed since the s. Nashville has voluntarily participated in the UCR program more than years. The UCR Program collects data on known offenses and persons arrested by law enforcement agencies. The UCR Program collects offense information for murder and nonnegligent manslaughter forcible rape robbery aggravated assault burglary larcenytheft motor vehicle theft and arson. These are Part I offenses and are serious crimes by nature andor volume. These serious crimes are the immediate focus of police activity. Other crimes such as embezzlement or kidnapping for example are crimes which immediately come to the attention of the police for investigation but are not typically crimes that occur in patterns or trends or occur so infrequently that they are typically not benefited by the crime analysis and Compstat process therefore they are handled on a case by case basis. Thus the UCR Program limits the reporting of offenses known to the eight selected crime classifications because they are the crimes most likely to be reported and most likely to occur with sufficient frequency to provide an adequate basis for comparison. 
Although the TBI provides statewide NIBRS data to the FBI the FBI also chooses to continue reporting national crime statistics in the traditional summary format also known as the Uniform Crime Report UCR. The FBI converts NIBRS statistics submitted by agencies that report crime data via the NIBRS format to the traditional UCR summary format and incorporates them into the national crime database. In approximately percent of the Nations law enforcement agencies participating in the UCR Program submitted their data via NIBRS and the crime data collected via NIBRS comprised approximately percent of the data submitted to the FBI. As a result the conversion of NIBRS to UCR crime counts is not completely accurate since differences exist between NIBRS and UCR reporting guidelines and offense definitions. 
Both NIBRS and UCR involve agencies completing detailed reports and investigating crimes. The UCR program reports summary data for each incident while the NIBRS program gathers more detailed data on each crime. Therefore the MNPD collects data in both formats. By recognizing the benefits and limitations of each data set the MNPD maximizes those factors to develop its internal crime analysis reports as a tool for department managers. The NIBRS format data offers a significant benefit as an analytical tool. However the usefulness of the UCR summary format in narrowing the focus of police resources in order to respond to crime patterns and trends in a timely manner along with the ability to make historical data comparisons makes the UCR format the most appropriate crime statistic reporting tool for most purposes.
It is important to note however that the reporting format UCR vs. NIBRS has no effect on how police respond to individual crimes investigate those crimes or conduct follow up investigations. The reporting format and the differences within each simply provides different analytical tools to the crime analysis process. 
The MNPD collects and reports in both the UCR and NIBRS formats. The UCR format is more concise and therefore conducive to indexing or making comparisons over time in Nashville and in comparing Nashville to peer cities. 
Internally the Crime Analysis program uses both the UCR and NIBRS formats to analyze crime and develop planning tools. These analyses are published internally to the department as a management tool so as to aid supervisors in developing strategies to address crime and quality of life issues.
The Nashville Police Department in partnership with CrimeMapping.com provides an online service enabling the public to analyze interactive maps of recent crime activity at the neighborhood level to further strengthen community oriented policing efforts.
CrimeMapping.com utilizes advanced mapping software which helps the MNPD provide a userfriendly and flexible tool for citizens. Crime data is updated on a regular and timely basis from the departments Records Management System. This data is verified for accuracy and all address information is generalized by block in order to help ensure privacy is protected. 
The Crime Alert feature is one of the most popular of CrimeMapping.com. Citizens can register online to receive free email updates whenever new crime activity occurs in a specified area. A person can register multiple times in order to learn about criminal activity near their residence business workplace or even their childs school.
Citizens and community groups will have instant access to important and timely crime information affecting their neighborhoods empowering them to proactively partner with officers to address problem areas.
The site maintains current information with new data uploaded into the system every hours. Incident information used is thoroughly tested for accuracy.
Physician killed after attack inside Dallas mental health facility is remembered
Physician killed after attack inside Dallas mental health facility is remembered
Eleven wounds on head neck and chest of exprisoner who suffered catastrophic injuries in killing
Eleven wounds on head neck and chest of exprisoner who suffered catastrophic injuries in killing
The man managed to call ambulance even though he had been shot in the face neck and abdomen
A yearold man is fighting for life after being blasted three times as he sat in his car outside his home in Dun Emer Place in Lusk North Co Dublin
At Ennis Circuit Court in Clare Judge Gerald Keys said that Anthony Moran aka Rodney Stanners is a danger to society
It is believed a sevenyearold boy was approached by two men in the Maudlintown area
The vehicle was discovered in a field close to the shooting which took place in Dun Emer Place in Lusk North Dublin
Tnaiste Frances Fitzgerald has put forward the legislation for approval by Cabinet
The yearold predator committed the offence and two other attacks on the same victim before the Criminal Law Rape Amendment Act came into effect in 
Yumei Douglas said she felt they were in a different world before rushing to work on the day of the brutal attack
The woman who owned the property at Dardistown found an unknown man in her home when she returned home at approximately pm on Friday
Gardai are investigating whether his killing is linked to the KinahanHutch feud this would bring its death toll to eight
Garda believe at least two people were involved in the killing of David Daithi Douglas
The incident took place shortly after pm this afternoon in Dublins south inner city 
There are some deep problems were dealing with here a Multnomah County judge told neighbors. While youre at ground zero its a community issue in a citywide sense.
The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used
Sports bras are used by nearly all women when it comes to working out yet a quarter of all women say their bras hurt them when they exercis
New Haven police arrested yearold Bryce Barnes after investigating reports of shots fired during a party on Rosette Street on Sunday nig
Articles covering the latest criminal and Police investigations as well as missing persons alerts for the State of Connecticut
New Haven police arrested yearold Bryce Barnes after investigating reports of shots fired during a party on Rosette Street on Sunday nig
A yearold New Haven man was arrested for stealing an AR rifle after breaking into a state police cruiser that was parked in Milford b
Police say a Connecticut man accidentally shot himself in the leg while dancing.
New Haven Police are searching for two armed robbers that confronted three men on Parmalee Avenue early Sunday morning.
A Louisiana police officer shot and killed a black man during a confrontation outside a Baton Rouge convenience store authorities said pro
Oscar Pistorius has been sentenced to six years in prison for the murder of girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp.
A Northern California man who said Google was watching him faces federal charges in three latenight attacks on the companys Silicon Vall
The Waterbury man accused of killing his fiancee and then stuffing her body in a closet went before a judge Tuesday and showed no emotion.
The FBI wont recommend criminal charges against Hillary Clinton for her use of a private email server while secretary of state agency Dire
Following the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history federal background checks for gun purchases surged in June.
A Connecticut father and son are headed for a court showdown with the Federal Aviation Administration over whether the agency can force them
A motions hearing will be held ahead of a fourth Baltimore police officers trial on charges stemming from the death of a yearold black 
Investigators are conducting a forensic examination to identify the explosive compound that blew up in Central Park seriously injuring the 
Hamden Police are looking for a man who robbed a yearold woman on Mix Avenue on Saturday.
A yearold Florida man who authorities say accidentally shot and killed his yearold son at a shooting range is blaming himself not 
LIN Television Corporation a Media General company. All rights reserved
We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookie Policies to find out more.
An illegal immigrant who pressurised a yearold girl into makingan explicit video of herself before he sentthe film on to her friends has been jailed for nine years.
A man has been sentenced after he groped a teenage girl on a bus in southeast London.
Read the latest and breaking news on amarujala.com. Get live Hindi news about India and the World from politics sports bollywood business cities lifestyle astrology spirituality jobs and much more. Register with amarujala.com to get all the latest Hindi news updates as they happen.
Matthew Keller of Watauga is accused of exchanging nude photos and videos with a teenage boy in Michigan.
Police say he tried to rob a father and a son at a convenience store in Arlington on Sunday.
A Denton County jail officer remained in critical condition Monday after being involved in a motorcycle crash on his way to work.
A suspected robber was found shot to death in his vehicle near an Arlington convenience store and police said Monday he may have been killed by one of his intended victims.
A Plano High School baseball player was arrested June on multiple child sex charges.
The driver of a sedan was traveling at a high rate of speed when he lost control and collided with a sports utility vehicle Forest Hill police said.
A boater on Lake Grapevine reported a body on the slope of the south end of the dam police say.
Chicago woman testified that she planned to spend a week with C.J. Spillman at the Gaylord Texan hotel where he was living but he raped her after she asked to leave. 
Maritza Charles was arrested Thursday by police who say she left a yearold girl in a hot vehicle on June .
The robbery happened Wednesday at the First Convenience Bank off South Hulen Street. Police are searching for the suspect.
Chicago woman testifies that she planned to spend a week with C.J. Spillman at the Gaylord Texan hotel where he was living but he forced her to have sex after she asked to leave. 
The boy is accused of breaking into Meadow Creek Elementary School and setting fire to items in a classroom and spray painting graffiti according to the Fort Worth police and fire departments.
Miriam Cepeda has been on CNN and was featured in a Latinos for Trump feature on CBS News earlier this month. Her father was convicted in the murder of a cartel lawyer at Southlake Town Square.
A yearold Fort Worth man has been jailed on a murder warrant on accusations that he caused the death of his exs sister while shooting at another man. 
A former Dallas Cowboys special teams player is on trial this week accused of sexually assaulting a woman from Chicago who flew here to meet him at the Gaylord Texan hotel.
Texas Department of Public Safety will work with local police to increase enforcement during the Independence Day weekend. 
A Fort Worth police traffic captain has been jailed after an offduty twocar wreck in Hurst in which he is accused of being intoxicated.
A yearold man has been arrested on suspicion of property damage after he was caught inserting a condom full of semen into a girls bag police said.According to police the incident took place in May this year at Kokkaigijidomae station in Tokyos Chiyoda Ward. Kiyoshi Read
An yearold elementary school student has been taken into custody after being found responsible for two cases of arson in Otsu Shiga Prefecture police said.
The Tokyo District Court on Tuesday sentenced a former law school student to four and a half years in prison for severing ayearold lawyers penis last year who the defendant suspected forced his wife to Read
A yearold woman and two of her children were found dead on the shore along the Tojo coast at Kamogawa Chiba Prefecture on Monday in what police believe was a murdersuicide. Another of the womans Read
The defense lawyer for a U.S. civilian base worker indicted for raping and murdering a yearold woman in Okinawa Prefecture demanded Monday that the trial be moved to Tokyo saying it is unlikely a fair Read
Japanese police arrested an American serviceman for alleged drunken driving on Okinawa early Monday morning days after the lifting of an offbase drinking ban imposed after other alcohol offenses and the arrest of a former Read
A yearold woman was arrested Sunday for stabbing her boyfriend and leaving him unconscious after the two had a discussion over splitting up police said.
Police in Kochi City said Sunday they have arrested a yearold man on suspicion of killing his yearold brother at their apartment.
Osaka Prefectural Police have neglected the investigation of criminal cases including homicides as a result of sloppy administrative procedures a recently released probe reveals.
A newborn baby boy was found inside a bag left on a street bench in Naha Okinawa early Saturday.According to police the infants umbilical cord was still attached to him when he was found Read
A yearold woman was stabbed to death in the street police revealed Friday.
Notice how it is the same ignorant lying yahoos who loved DIck Cheyney and all his
The only difference is that the invasion of Iraq was terrorism by a country whereas ISIS
What strikes me as interesting is that Trump has been saying this since last year. Yet
This wouldnt be nearly such a problem if part time workers and women were properly paid
Load More 
Read the latest and breaking news on amarujala.com. Get live Hindi news about India and the World from politics sports bollywood business cities lifestyle astrology spirituality jobs and much more. Register with amarujala.com to get all the latest Hindi news updates as they happen.
By submitting your registration information you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
We have sent a confirmation email to dataemailAddress . Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.
We look forward to seeing you on website frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.
Sorry we could not verify that email address. Enter your email below and well send you another email.
In the page motion the Justice Department is calling on a federal judge to put a stop to the bathroom section of HB. Click inside to read the page motion.
President Barack Obama and presumptive Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton stopped at Midwood Smokehouse in PlazaMidwood. Click inside for raw video.
A Carowinds spokeswoman said a group of kids caused some sort of disturbance Monday night at the park. Read the parks full statement inside this story.
Thousands chanted Hillary as Clinton and President Obama took the stage at the Charlotte 
ROME AP Authorities are looking into whether an American college student whose body was found 
Thousands chanted Hillary as Clinton and President Obama took the stage at the Charlotte 
By using this website you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy and understand your options regarding Ad Choices.
Prince William police said two five year old children were sexually assaulted in two seperate incidents in June.
Sexual Assault Investigation On June detectives from the Special Victims Unit responded toinvestigate a sexual assault which was reported to have occurred in at a residence located inWoodbridge. The investigation revealed that the victim a then year old girl of Woodbridge wassexually assaulted by two family members on more than one occasion. The victim recently disclosed theassaults and police were contacted. Following the investigation the both individuals identified as EdwinTORRESDIAZ and Yoni TORRESDIAZ were arrested on June .
Sexual Assault Investigation On June detectives from the Special Victims Unit responded toinvestigate a sexual assault which was reported to have occurred in May of this year at a residencelocated in Woodbridge. The investigation revealed that the victim a year old girl of Woodbridge wassexually assaulted by a family member. The victim recently disclosed the incident to a family memberwho contacted police. Following the investigation the accused identified as a year old malejuvenile was arrested on June .
Charged with count of rape counts of object sexual penetration and counts of forcible
Police called in help by way of a helicopter from Fairfax aftergunshots were heard in Woodbridge.
Report of gun shots heard in the wood line near Georgetown Rd and Chowning Ct in Woodbridge . Officer was in the area and heard what is believed to be several more gun shots. No injuries or property damage have been reported or discovered at this point. Two subjects have been detained. One ran from an officer and may be in the wood line in the area. K and FFX on scene or almost.
Again no weapon has been seenrecovered shell casings discovered at this point and injuriesproperty damage.
During the encounter MCGRIFF brandished a handgun and shot thevictims in the lower body. When officers arrived one of the victims was located in theresidence then transported to a local hospital with serious nonlife threatening injuries. A short timelater the second victim responded to a local hospital with serious nonlife threatening injuries.
Theaccused fled the scene prior to officers arriving in the area. Following the investigation officers obtainedwarrants for the arrest of the accused. Attempts to locate the accused have been unsuccessful.
Wanted for counts of aggravated malicious wounding count for attempted aggravatedmalicious wounding counts of use of a firearm in commission of a felony and counts ofpossession of a firearm by a convicted felon
We have victims. was taken by personal vehicle to Sentara. ground transported by ambulance. No suspect info to release yet.
I can confirm that we received a report of shots fired in the area and a person walked in to Sentara Hospital. Units are on scene now. This is still an ongoing incident so details are few. 
James Aubrey Brown IV of Woodbridge who was convicted by a federal jury on charges of attempted coercion and enticement of a minor on March was sentenced today to years in prison for his crimes. Brown was also sentenced to five years of supervised release and ordered to register as a sex offender upon release from prison.
According to court records and evidence presented at trial Brown responded to a Craigslist ad purportedly posted by a yearold girl living on Marine Corps Base Quantico. Over a period of days and an exchange of over emails Brown repeatedly pressed the girl to meet and engage in sexual acts including oral and vaginal sex. He also solicited nude photos of the girl. Ultimately he arranged to come to Marine Corps Base Quantico to have sex with the girl. Over email he directed her as to what to wear and what do when he arrived. On the morning of Sept. Brown arrived at the meeting location where he was arrested for attempting to persuade a person he believed to be a yearold to engage in sexual activity that would be criminal under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Dana J. Boente U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia and Jeremy Gauthier Special Agent in Charge of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service NCIS Washington D.C. Field Office made the announcement after sentencing by U.S. District Judge Liam OGrady. Assistant U.S. Attorney Whitney Dougherty Russell and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph Longobardo prosecuted the case.
Male medium complexion with a thin build long black curly hair and unshaven face
An Exxon station in Dumfries was robbed at gunpoint last night. The suspects managed to fire two rounds into a wall.
Duringthe encounter one of the men brandished a handgun then forced him back into the store anddemanding money. At some point one of the suspects struck another employee a year old man ofTriangle on the head with the handgun causing a severe laceration then discharged two rounds into anearby wall.
The suspects took an undisclosed amount of money before fleeing the area in an unknownvehicle. The victim was transported to a local hospital for treatment of his injuries. No other injuries orproperty damage were reported. The investigation continues.
Two black males between years of age lbs with a thin build
Suspect was last seen wearing a white shirt covering his face blue jeans and gloves.
Suspect was last seen wearing a white shirt covering his face blue jeans black jacket and gloves.
Police arrested four people at the Horner Road commuter lot Friday June and charged them with possession of stolen property.
While its not related to thesearrests this is the same commuter lot where commuters have come home after work to find their cars on blocks.
Charged with counts of possession of a stolen credit card counts of contributing to thedelinquency of a minor count of possession of stolen property and count of urinating inpublic
Charged with counts of possession of a stolen credit card counts of contributing to thedelinquency of a minor and count of possession of stolen property
Charged with count of possession of a schedule I or II narcotic possession of or more stolencredit cards count of possession of stolen property and possession of marijuana
Charged with count of possession of or more stolen credit cards and count of possessionof stolen property
When officers activated their lights and siren the driver refused to stop and fled at a high rate of speed towards I. Officers pursued the vehicle north into Fairfax County where police terminated the pursuit for safety reasons. The vehicle was eventually located by police in Washington D.C. where the driver bailed from the vehicle and fled on foot. A front passenger was taken into custody by law enforcement without incident.
During the investigation detectives from Prince William County were able to identify the driver as the accused. Detectives determined that the front passenger was not connected to the original incident on Worth Ave. Following the investigation detectives obtained warrants for the arrest of the accused identified as Jose Neftaly CANALES GRANADOS. The accused has ties to Prince William County and attempts to locate him have been unsuccessful. Anyone with information on the whereabouts of the accused is asked to call police at .
Were told the suspect in a breaking and entering that occurred Thursday in Park Ridge is an adult. The suspect celebrated his th birthday on the same day he was charged with breaking and entering said Stafford sheirffs spokeswoman M.C. Moncure.
The victim in this case heard someone trying to break into his house about lunchtime on Thursday and called police. The victim chased the suspect outside the house as neighbors looked on said Moncure. Those neighbors were able to assist sheriffs deputies in locating the suspect she added.
On June a homeowner on Park Cove Drive in the Park Ridge subdivision noticed pry marks on his door and believed they were a result of someone attempting to break into his home. He decided to stay at home the following day and make sure his property was secure.
Richard Lee Snyder Jr. age was arrested and charged with two counts of Possession of Burglary Tools Destruction of Property and Entering Property of Another to Damage. He was taken to the Rappahannock Regional Jail and incarcerated with no bond.
Authorities in Stafford County today arrested a teenage boy in connection to a reported breaking and entering at a home on Park Cove Drive.
On June members of the Prince William County Police Departments Special Victims Bureau and Intel Unit began a week a long operation targeting offenders of crimes involving children. This operation was conducted as a proactive effort and was not in response to any specific incident. During this operation undercover detectives used social media and an undisclosed online site where they posed as underage juveniles. Male suspects contacted the undercover detectives and during the course of communications solicited sexual or indecent acts. These conversations involving the accused parties took place through electronic means. In each of the incidents the suspect made arrangements to meet the undercover detective at a public location in Prince William County. Once there detectives arrested the individual without incident. As a result of these investigations individuals were arrested. 
The Prince William County Police Department has conducted similar operations in the past in an attempt to deter crimes involving the sexual exploitation of minors. In conjunction with the Commonwealth Attorneys Office the appropriate charges were placed against each of accused individuals involved in this operation. All communications were conducted in a controlled environment and at no time involved actual children. We would remind parents to take an active role in monitoring what their children are doing online. The following are links to helpful resources for parents provided by OnGuard Online a managing site of The Federal Trade Commission and partner in the Stop Think Connect campaign. 
Charged with counts of using a communication device to facilitate certain offense with children and count of attempted indecent liberties
Charged with counts of using a communication device to facilitate certain offense with children 
Jeffrey Harrison DIMOND of N. McClellan Dr in Fredericksburg No photo available 
Charged with count of using a communication device to facilitate certain offense with children
Charged with counts of using a communication device to facilitate certain offense with children count of solicitation of prostitution and count of using a vehicle to promote prostitution
Charged with counts of using a communication device to facilitate certain offense with children
Charged with counts of using a communication device to facilitate certain offense with children
Charged with counts of using a communication device to facilitate certain offense with children
Murder Investigation ARREST On June detectives from the Homicide Unit identified the suspect involved in the murder of Harold Woodrow Hall which occurred at a residence located in the block of West Longview Dr in Woodbridge on November . The preliminary investigation into the incident alleged that the suspect identified as Eric Ricardo DICKERSON fatally stabbed the victim following an altercation between the two parties. Following the encounter the suspect also stole property from the victim including the victims vehicle and credit cards. The suspect and victim are known to one another. On June members of the U.S. Marshals Fugitive Task Force located the suspect at his home in Woodbridge where he was arrested without incident.
A second person is in custody in the murder of yearold Najee Mason who was killed last weekend in Woodbridge.
Murder Investigation ADDITIONAL ARREST On June detectives from the Homicide Unit charged a second man in connection to the murder of Najee Mason which occurred in the block of Potomac Heights Pl in Woodbridge on June . This suspect identified as Ricardo Stephen TOMPKINS was located during the June arrest of Abdisalam Ali ROBLE in Syracuse NY by members of the U.S. Marshals Fugitive Task Force. Both suspects currently remain jailed in New York pending extradition back to Virginia. The investigation continues.
Ricardo Stephen TOMPKINS of New Market Turner Rd in Mechanicsville MD
The yearold did not have permission to be at the home and the victim called according to Stafford County Sheriffs spokeswoman M.C. Moncure.
Deputies arrived and entered the home and found Sumter lying on a floor. The deputies told the suspect to show is hands and then he pulled out a handgun and started shooting according to Moncure.
A deputy returned fire. One of the deputies was struck four times in the chest arm hip and thigh. The law enforcement officer was saved from a potentially lifeending round said Moncure.
The unidentified deputy was taken to a local hospital for treatment in serious but stable condition. The officer was expected to undergo surgery this afternoon.
Sumter fled the scene after the shooting and was arrested early this morning. While being escorted from the sheriffs office to the Rappahannock Regional Jail Sumter assaulted a deputy and tried to escape said Moncure.
The suspect was taken back into custody. He is charged with four counts of attempted capital murder aggravated malicious wounding four counts of use of a firearm in the commission of a felony and with assault on a law enforcement officer according to Moncure.
Joshua Anthony Sumter is charged with shooting a Stafford County Sheriffs deputy.
The identify or the condition of the deputy has not been released. The law enforcement officer was injured extensively according to a department spokeswoman.
Deputies were called Tuesday night to a breaking and entering at a home in Windsor Ridge Court near Route . It was there the deputy was shot multiple times.
The Stafford County Sheriffs Office is expected to release more info about the deputy later today.
Murder Investigation ARREST On June detectives from the Homicide Unit identified the suspect involved in the murder of Najee Mason which occurred in the block of Potomac Heights Pl in Woodbridge on June . The preliminary investigation into the incident alleged that the suspect identified as Abdisalam Ali ROBLE fatally shot the victim following an altercation between the two parties. The suspect and the victim were roommates and known to one another. On June members of the U.S. Marshals Fugitive Task Force located the suspect in Syracuse New York where he was arrested without incident. The suspect currently remains jailed in New York pending extradition back to Virginia. The investigation continues.
The victims in the shooting are adults ages and . Authorities originally reported the shooting victims as juveniles.
Authorities said a gun went off inside a home of Banner Springs Circle on Thursday afternoon.
A bullet from the gun passed through the hand of one child and into the arm of another. Both children were taken to a local hospital with injuries that did not appear to be life threatening according to Stafford sheriffs spokeswoman MC Moncure.
The sheriffs office did not release the age of the victims. We also dont know if an adult was present at the time of the shootings.
Two subjects were injured in the shooting. They have nonlife threatening injuries. This location is an active investigation and limited details are known at this time.
Someone used a stolen credit card obtained from a patient at Stafford Hospital and used it at a grocery store.
The card was reported stolen Friday May . The card was later used at a Food Lion grocery store on Route in south Stafford.
Investigators did provide details on how the credit card was stolen or provide information about whom the card belongs.
Investigators released the photos weve published in this post. The Stafford County Sheriffs Office asked anyone with information about the suspect in the photos to contact authorities.
Jail guards broke up a riot inside the Prince William County Adult Detention Center in Manassas.
During the fight two of the inmates pushed and restrained two correctional officers as they attempted to intervene to break up the altercation. Several inmates involved in the encounter were eventually detained without further incident. Minor injuries were reported. Following the investigation detectives with the Gang Unit obtained charges for all parties involved. In addition the below listed charges detectives obtained warrants on inmates which included assault by mob assault battery and participation in a riot.
Charged with assault battery on a corrections officer and participating in a riot
Charged with assault battery on a corrections officer and participating in a riot
Charged with malicious wounding and participating in a riot
A yearold man is in custody and is charged in a bank robbery reported in Lake Ridge on May .
Armed Bank Robbery ARREST On May detectives from the Robbery Unit identified the suspect involved in the robbery which occurred at the Wells Fargo Bank located at Harbor Dr in Woodbridge on May . Following the investigation officers obtain warrants for the arrest of the accused. The accused was already in custody in Maryland on an unrelated charge. The accused remains in custody in Maryland pending extradition back to Virginia.
Charged with robbery burglary while armed and use of a firearm in commission of a felony
Police did not release a photo of Walker. The suspect has a record in Prince William County dating back to with prior charges to include receiving and selling stolen goods and destruction of property according to state court case records.
Johnnie Pablito Kamara of WoodbridgeMaryland was shot killed outside a Woodbridge nightclub early this morning.
Kamara was shot on the scene and later pronounced dead at a local hospital. A portion of Golansky Boulevard between Smoketown Road and an auto wash was closed for the investigation.
No arrests have been made in the case. This is the th homicide in Prince William County in .
Police corrected an earlier statement that indicated the victim is from Woodbridge.
Police located Allison Mott. They report she is safe. Authorities said they could not disclose where she was found.
Allison Elizabeth MOTT is described as a white female years of age lbs with brown hair recently dyed jet black and hazel eyes.
Potomac Local News is independent local news published daily serving Prince William and Stafford counties in Virginia. We are the regions premier leading local online news source. News traffic weather thoughtful insight things to do where you live and so much more youll find them all right here.
A Visalia woman pleaded not guilty Friday to drunken driving and manslaughter charges in connection with a crash on the outskirts of Los Banos that killed her yearold son.
A lawsuit says a former Los Banos High School student was sexually abused by former teachers Gary Bettencourt and Dusty Norris nearly years ago.
Dos Palos police used their noses Tuesday night to investigate an illegal marijuana garden operation worth more than million on the streets that landed a Modesto man in jail Police Chief Barry Mann said.
A disgraced Catholic priest who led a Los Banos parish for five years before he was caught with child pornography is serving his sentence behind bars at the John Latorraca Correctional Facility in Merced County the Sheriffs Office confirmed Tuesday.
Gov. Jerry Brown approved the state budget Monday that includes the . million championed by Mercedarea elected officials to fight gang violence and other law enforcement issues. The Violence InterruptionPrevention Emergency Response or VIPER program uses social media gang sources and information databases to intervene before violence happens according to leaders.
Its been more than a year since a Merced pediatrician charged with molesting three autistic children apparently jumped bail and disappeared. Authorities say the search continues.
A yearold Gustine man was shot to death over the weekend the Gustine Police Department reported.
An yearold boy was killed Sunday in a singlevehicle crash north of Los Banos and his mother the driver of the vehicle in which he was riding has been arrested on suspicion of drunken driving the California Highway Patrol reported Monday.
Merced Police Departments Gang Violence Suppression Unit made multiple arrests Friday including two that landed men in jail on suspicion of gun and drug offenses.
An Atwater man on probation was booked into Merced County Jail Friday after Atwater police found drugs and a gun in his car during a traffic stop.
Two Merced gang members were arrested on suspicion of possession of weapons narcotics and grand theft according to police officials. There were about marijuana plants found at their residences and a storage unit and evidence they were stealing electricity from tenants police said.
A yearold Atwater man was shot in the foot about p.m. Thursday on Determine Drive in Atwater the Police Department reported.
A routine traffic stop ended Friday in Atwater with one man in custody after an officer spotted a bag of methamphetamine in plain sight inside the car the Police Department reported.
A brief foot chase ended Thursday in Atwater with a man behind bars who has a lengthy criminal history the Police Department reported.
A DUI and drivers license checkpoint will be held at an undisclosed location in Atwater on Tuesday. According to an Atwater Police Department news release the checkpoint will be conducted by the departments traffic unit within city limits.
Authorities say a police officers hunch led to the recovery of a car early Wednesday before the owner even realized it had been stolen.
Three people were arrested a stolen car was recovered and a large knife was confiscated Saturday along with small amounts of drugs as part of a new effort by the Atwater Police Department to target known criminals in highprofile crime areas of the city Lt. Samuel Joseph said Monday.
A suspicious fire burned an abandoned home early Monday in south Merced the Fire Department reported.
Elected officials and law enforcement agents rolled out a plan Friday they say will attack Merced Countys gang violence before and after it happens. The . million Violence InterruptionPrevention Emergency Response program uses social media sources and information databases to intervene before violence happens according to leaders. 
Police are searching for two men after a cab driver was shot at. According to . Read More 
Police are searching for a man and a woman after they say a Fourth of . Read More 
Two Muslim teens who took a break from latenight prayers at their mosque in Sunset . Read More 
Minority police officers and civil rights advocates demanded Tuesday that the city government launch an . Read More 
The coowner of a popular pizza parlor who was gunned down last week will be . Read More 
At least seven people were shot during a Fourth of July barbecue. Police say the . Read More 
A young woman was able to scare off an attacker in Park Slope. . Read More 
The coowner of a popular Brooklyn pizzeria was gunned down outside his Dyker Heights home . Read More 
A double shooting at an apartment in Bushwick left one man dead and a woman . Read More 
Police say a yearold man was shot and killed on th Avenue Thursday. They say . Read More 
Police are asking for the publics help identifying the suspect in the killing of a . Read More 
A yearold man is the victim of a deadly shooting and the police are searching . Read More 
Police are continuing the search for a man who attempted to rape a woman on . Read More 
Three people were arraigned Wednesday in last years fatal shooting of Carey Gabay who was . Read More 
Police are searching for a second suspect in connection to a deadly shooting. The incident . Read More 
Police have released surveillance video of a woman fighting off a rape attempt near Prospect . Read More 
A Brownsville woman is mourning the loss of her husband after he was fatally shot . Read More 
A routine tax and finance inspection at a Bushwick candy shop led to a major . Read More 
An NYPD officer was sentenced to two years of probation and will lose his job . Read More 
Police have released a photo of a suspect they say attacked a teenage girl on . Read More 
Two women robbed a cab driver at gunpoint on Montauk Avenue earlier this month police . Read More 
A Bronx woman whose son died in a shooting on Mothers Day in Brooklyn pleaded . Read More 
Police have released surveillance video of a suspect accused of shooting a yearold man in . Read More 
The United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York says several NYPD members . Read More 
Three men are wanted in connection to a home burglary in the Bronx according to . Read More 
A woman is in custody after police say she stabbed a yearold man to death . Read More 
A womans throat was slashed after a man attempted to rape her in Brooklyn according . Read More 
An argument over a hoverboard in a Williamsburg supermarket escalated into a fistfight police say. . Read More 
Two men threatened to light fire to a checkcashing shop during an attempted robbery early . Read More 
A yearold Brooklyn man is dead after a shooting. According to police they responded to . Read More 
The Kings County District Attorneys Office unsealed an indictment against a man Wednesday in the . Read More 
Mourners gathered Tuesday on Clarendon Road to memorialize a yearold East Flatbush girl who was . Read More 
Officials have hinted at a possible breakthrough in a coldcase killing in Brooklyn. Chanel PetroNixon . Read More 
A man assaulted a dollar store employee during an attempted robbery in Brooklyn according to . Read More 
A Brooklyn man is among those dead after a gunman opened fire during a terror . Read More 
Two men were shot after gunfire broke out at a Brooklyn steakhouse. It happened on . Read More 
Sentencing for an NYPD officer indicted for stomping on a mans head during a . Read More 
A man was arrested and charged after allegedly beating two women and striking a child . Read More 
A woman whose phone was stolen by a man riding the L train says the . Read More 
Police have arrested the exboyfriend of the yearold woman fatally shot in the head outside . Read More 
Brooklyn rapper Troy Ave who last week pleaded not guilty to attempted murder charges was . Read More 
Four men are accused of robbing a teen at gunpoint in Brooklyn. It happened on . Read More 
Police are continuing to question a person of interest in connection with the slaying of . Read More 
Police released surveillance footage Wednesday of a person of interest in a fatal shooting Tuesday . Read More 
A woman died after she collided with a fuel truck while riding her bike in . Read More 
A man is wanted by police after they say he stole an yearold womans purse . Read More 
Access to News is free for Optimum Comcast Time Warner and Service Electric video customers.
Please enjoy complimentary views to articles photos and videos during the next days.
JOHN Cassidy who was sentenced to seven years after stabbing a man in the heart has said he will throw a party to celebrate his release.
DARREN Adie died from stab wounds and his father John says he cant bury his son until his killer has been arrested.
THE yearold had told an earlier hearing his name was death to traitors freedom for Britain.
JOHN Reid was back on the streets after serving time for killing Simon San but he has now been jailed for another year for housebreaking.
TESTIMONIES from the officers will be considered as part of an investigation into the CCU.
SHERIFF Richard Davidson found himself at the centre of controversy several times during his legal career but he has now quit two years before he was due to retire.
THE yearold victim was attacked in a lane near Bannerman High School on Friday night and taken to hospital where his condition is serious but stable.
AN yearold has been hospitalised with serious injuries in the wake of the unprovoked attack in Niddrie House Park at am this morning.
The .million Euros were placed above a washing machine with a bottle of milk next to it baby wipes and a tomato ketchup in the background
THE Daily Record pictured Farai Chirashi going to Greggs and visiting shops in Edinburgh on a supervised outing less than two years after her shocking crime.
OFFICERS investigating the street attack in Cardowan that targeted three brothers are seeking information about a white saloon that tried to box in a van.
HAIRDRESSER Arthur SimpsonKent is facing life behind bars after pleading guilty to the gruesome killings at the Old Bailey today.
WORRIED neighbours in Pathhead Midlothian have gathered to share their concerns about the sex beast moving into their quiet street.
RYAN Cunningham called one teenage colleague a slag and a wh at a nightclub then assaulted his victims at a party.
JAMES Smith says he saw the crying girl and set off in pursuit of her attacker just minutes after the youngster was grabbed on a cycle path in South Queensferry.
ANNE Abberley and Liam Thornborough got carried away after kissing and the randy couple were by spotted by staff on CCTV cameras.
A yearold St. Petersburg Florida man led Monroe County deputies on a chase down Interstate late Tuesday as Travis Williams Jr. hit speeds of mph on his motorcycle before crashing into bushes in north Bibb County.
Two men from Gray yearold Justin Woodall and yearold Aaron Kimbrough were hurt in a shooting early Wednesday morning on Pansy Avenue in Macons Unionville neighborhood according to the Bibb County Sheriffs Office.
A yearold woman was wounded by a stray bullet in east Macon on Independence Day.
A Macon man accused of beating several children and poking their bodies with scissors was indicted Tuesday. A woman who allegedly harmed the kids and failed to protect them was also indicted.
Milledgeville police are looking for the shooter who damaged a car about a.m. Monday as a yearold driver was headed south on South Elbert Street.
A Bibb County deputy opened fire on a fleeing gunman after hearing shots fired in Macons Pleasant Hill neighborhood near Grier Street and Neal Avenue.
The Georgia board of Pardons and Paroles is set to consider the case of John Wayne Conner on July . He is set to be executed the following day.
Derrick Dwayne Lamb was arrested in connection with an armed robbery of the GameStop on Presidential Parkway in Macon. Lamb is accused of dousing an employee in lighter fluid and threatening to set him on fire if he didnt hand over money in the cash register.
A Pinellas County Florida woman led officers on a chase of over miles in her Kia on Interstate early Friday as she fled through Cook Tift Turner Crisp Dooley Houston and Peach counties.
The air temperature was an estimated degrees on a July day in when Daniel Christopher Howard left his yearold son and a kitten behind in a moving truck as he went into Macons Zebulon Road WalMart. Howard pleaded guilty to cruelty to children Friday.
Bibb County sheriffs deputy responds to reported box cutter attack at Macon plant. Plus a woman says another woman hit her after accusing her of sleeping with the wrong man.
Daniel Christopher Howard of Appling pleaded guilty Friday in Bibb County Superior Court to cruelty to children a charge stemming from his leaving his yearold son in a moving truck with the windows up and without air conditioning as he shopped at Macons Zebulon Road WalMart.
The violent crimes unit at the Bibb County Sheriffs Office has so far had about half the workload that it did this time last year.
State troopers will be out in force during peak travel times during the long Fourth of July holiday travel period.
Shavious Antwan Balkcom pleaded guilty Thursday to his participation in the gang shootout at Macons Wings Cafe that left three men fatally wounded.
After being told to dry the dishes hed washed Tuesday evening a young man allegedly slapped his mother several times at her southwest Macon home.
What happened when a Macon man let a neighborhood teen take his Staffordshire bull terrier for a walk.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
Greater Manchester Police receives approaching reports of crime each year. Among these are a number of more serious cases with about murder cases being launched each year.
Newlywed James Ian Ratcliffe torched the dress after a bustup over plans to store an air rifle in their house
Thousands are still left with no money for filling in forms incorrectly or being five minutes late to an appointment
Wali Yaqub has been on the run since May after claiming he had Ebola but he was sentenced in his absence for a string of fire safety offences.
Derek Laidlaw was punched and pinned against the wall by his attacker in Failsworth
M.E.N. Media is one of the north wests largest media providers and reaches out of people
Online manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes .million unique users who experience.million page views every month.
Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News Britains largest circulatingregional daily with up to copies as well as local weekly titles across Greater
Free morning newspaper The Metro published every weekday is also part of our portfolio
Greater Manchester Business Week is the regions number one provider of business news andfeatures targeting a bespoke business audience with copies every Thursday.
Every month M.E.N. Medias print products reach . million adults spanning from Accrington
To benefit from this unique unrivalled audience call M.E.N Media on or click here to fill in our contact form.
Editor Manchester Evening News editorinchief MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield
Rob Irvine was appointed editorinchief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April .
Rob joined Trinity Mirror in and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.
He grew up in Stockport Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for years.
Recognizing the need for a uniform national set of crime statistics reliable for analysis the FBIs Uniform Crime Reporting UCR program was developed in the s. It is reported that the first UCR document in January reflected data from cities in states covering more than million individuals approximately twenty percent of the total U.S. population. In law enforcement agencies active in the UCR Program represented more than million United States inhabitants. percent of the total population. As a result the function of crime analysis became more widely accepted. 
The study of crime reports arrest reports and calls for police service were all used to identify emerging patterns suspects and trends as quickly as possible. The analysis of this and other data to determine relevant factors to sometimes predict or forecast future occurrences was of great benefit in issuing analytical reports or intelligence bulletins to various elements of the department. Using such reports managers at all levels can better develop effective strategies and tactics to address crime and disorder.
The MNPD has compiled and reported crime statistics in the UCR or traditional summary format since the City of Nashville and Davidson County governments merged in . A modern crime analysis function has existed within the MNPD since and with the advent of mobile data computers automated field reporting and other advances in technology continues to evolve.
The MNPD collects and reports data in both the FBIs Uniform Crime Reporting UCR program and the National IncidentBased Reporting System NIBRS. These two reporting methodologies collect a vast amount of material that can be accessed by the general public researchers media and others regarding the levels of crime in the United States. 
NIBRS based data is reported by the MNPD to the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation. The MNPD chooses to publicly disseminate crime data in the UCR format. In the United States UCR crime reporting has existed since the s. Nashville has voluntarily participated in the UCR program more than years. The UCR Program collects data on known offenses and persons arrested by law enforcement agencies. The UCR Program collects offense information for murder and nonnegligent manslaughter forcible rape robbery aggravated assault burglary larcenytheft motor vehicle theft and arson. These are Part I offenses and are serious crimes by nature andor volume. These serious crimes are the immediate focus of police activity. Other crimes such as embezzlement or kidnapping for example are crimes which immediately come to the attention of the police for investigation but are not typically crimes that occur in patterns or trends or occur so infrequently that they are typically not benefited by the crime analysis and Compstat process therefore they are handled on a case by case basis. Thus the UCR Program limits the reporting of offenses known to the eight selected crime classifications because they are the crimes most likely to be reported and most likely to occur with sufficient frequency to provide an adequate basis for comparison. 
Although the TBI provides statewide NIBRS data to the FBI the FBI also chooses to continue reporting national crime statistics in the traditional summary format also known as the Uniform Crime Report UCR. The FBI converts NIBRS statistics submitted by agencies that report crime data via the NIBRS format to the traditional UCR summary format and incorporates them into the national crime database. In approximately percent of the Nations law enforcement agencies participating in the UCR Program submitted their data via NIBRS and the crime data collected via NIBRS comprised approximately percent of the data submitted to the FBI. As a result the conversion of NIBRS to UCR crime counts is not completely accurate since differences exist between NIBRS and UCR reporting guidelines and offense definitions. 
Both NIBRS and UCR involve agencies completing detailed reports and investigating crimes. The UCR program reports summary data for each incident while the NIBRS program gathers more detailed data on each crime. Therefore the MNPD collects data in both formats. By recognizing the benefits and limitations of each data set the MNPD maximizes those factors to develop its internal crime analysis reports as a tool for department managers. The NIBRS format data offers a significant benefit as an analytical tool. However the usefulness of the UCR summary format in narrowing the focus of police resources in order to respond to crime patterns and trends in a timely manner along with the ability to make historical data comparisons makes the UCR format the most appropriate crime statistic reporting tool for most purposes.
It is important to note however that the reporting format UCR vs. NIBRS has no effect on how police respond to individual crimes investigate those crimes or conduct follow up investigations. The reporting format and the differences within each simply provides different analytical tools to the crime analysis process. 
The MNPD collects and reports in both the UCR and NIBRS formats. The UCR format is more concise and therefore conducive to indexing or making comparisons over time in Nashville and in comparing Nashville to peer cities. 
Internally the Crime Analysis program uses both the UCR and NIBRS formats to analyze crime and develop planning tools. These analyses are published internally to the department as a management tool so as to aid supervisors in developing strategies to address crime and quality of life issues.
The Nashville Police Department in partnership with CrimeMapping.com provides an online service enabling the public to analyze interactive maps of recent crime activity at the neighborhood level to further strengthen community oriented policing efforts.
CrimeMapping.com utilizes advanced mapping software which helps the MNPD provide a userfriendly and flexible tool for citizens. Crime data is updated on a regular and timely basis from the departments Records Management System. This data is verified for accuracy and all address information is generalized by block in order to help ensure privacy is protected. 
The Crime Alert feature is one of the most popular of CrimeMapping.com. Citizens can register online to receive free email updates whenever new crime activity occurs in a specified area. A person can register multiple times in order to learn about criminal activity near their residence business workplace or even their childs school.
Citizens and community groups will have instant access to important and timely crime information affecting their neighborhoods empowering them to proactively partner with officers to address problem areas.
The site maintains current information with new data uploaded into the system every hours. Incident information used is thoroughly tested for accuracy.
The owner of this website www.sundayworld.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beefdafua.
Being a doctor in the public system and a surgeon in particular I know that violent crime is significantly underreported in the mainstream media. And to some extent we as doctors have become immune to the. 
There is a commercial currently running on cable television that I find humorous and at the same time infuriating. The scene is played out in a dentists office. A worriedlooking patient is seated in the dental. 
In the context of Brexit and the slowdown in the global economy the formation of the Economic Growth Council by the Andrew Holnessled Administration may have come at a good time. At any given time such councils if. 
MINISTER of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade Senator Kamina Johnson Smith has commended the USCaribbean Strategic Engagement Legislation now being considered by the United States Senate. Local News Wed Jul . 
CHIEF Medical Officer CMO Dr Winston De La Haye says the health ministry is trying to have the patients at the Bellevue Hospital who should have long been out of the institution moved to infirmaries. Local News Wed. 
MOTHERWELL Scotland AP Cooling towers blast furnaces and coking coal. The grit and humour of steelworkers heading to earlymorning shifts. That was Motherwell before the steelworks closed and the. 
GEORGETOWN Guyana CMC Caribbean Community Caricom leaders began their th summit here on Monday night in the shadows of the vote taken by Britons to exit the yearold European Union late last month. Local. 
West Indies middle order batsman Marlon Samuels has slapped former Australian fast bowler Geoff Lawson with a lawsuit for accusing him of being involved with criminal gangs in Jamaica. 
Reflecting on the per cent per cent decision by the voters of the United Kingdom UK in the June referendum to leave the European Union EU it seems pertinent to try to map the likely choices in the. 
Income investing is crucial in every step of ones investment cycle. Whether you want to accumulate wealth buy a house send your children to school plan for retirement or enjoy your golden retirement days. 
The Jamaica Manufacturers Association JMA in partnership with the EXIM Bank of Jamaica has launched a loan facility to the tune of million aimed at improving access to finance for small manufacturers. Local. 
In the past mortgage market stakeholders have expressed more interest in the divestment of the National Housing Trust NHT the largest housing provider than in the current proposal to divest the Jamaica. 
The Jamaica Manufacturers Association JMA must pay close attention to the significant implications of Great Britains departure from the European Union on Jamaica and the Caribbean according to Metry Seaga. 
Milverton Reynolds managing director of the Development Bank of Jamaica DBJ on Monday July announced the successful completion of the sale of the Petroleum Company of Jamaica Ltd PETCOM a wholly owned subsidiary. 
It could well be labelled as the final round of a virtual David versus Goliath battle between local firms Lasco Distributors Ltd and Medimpex and pharmaceutical giant Pfizer Ltd over the trading of a generic. 
New Fortress Energy the company which has won the contract to supply the islands sole power distributor the Jamaica Public Service Company JPS with LNG for substations in Bogue Montego Bay and another to be. 
Rio de Janeiro Brazil AFP Crimeplagued cashstrapped Rio de Janeiro struck an optimistic note yesterday with days to go before becoming South Americas first city to stage the Olympic Games. Local. 
CLIFF Dwyer and Emma Dibbs are the top seeds in Boys and Girls and under singles at the Access Financial Services AllJamaica Junior Tennis Championships which begins today at the Eric Bell Tennis. 
Beau Solomon vanished just hours after arriving in Rome Thursday to attend John Cabot University. A yearold homeless man has been arrested on homicide accusations.
A northern Minnesota man allegedly beat an acquaintance with a baseball bat then cut off his head with a knife after his girlfriend said he had raped her.
Arne Svensons Unspeaking Likeness collects the forensic facial reconstructions of men women and children who lost their identities when they died.
The teacher was reportedly in the middle of divorce proceedings with the womans son.
Lyntell Washington was seven months pregnant when she was found with a gunshot to the head.
She didnt care about religion she cared about dignity community She didnt care about our colour her interest was in people.
Arthur SimpsonKent pleaded guilty to three counts of murder at the Old Bailey on Friday morning.
A judge ruled there was not enough evidence to support a seconddegree murder change against Alexandria Duval for driving off a foot cliff killing her sister.
Prosecutors charged Alexandria Duval with second degree murder Monday. They say she killed her identical twin when she intentionally drove off an oceanside cliff.
Greens senator Peter WhishWilson wants Tasmania to adopt a policy already rolled out in Sydney.
James Glasgow successfully prosecuted Drew Peterson for killing his wife in . Then from jail Peterson tried to plot his revenge.
The FBI said that authorities captured Philip Patrick Policarpio when he attempted to reenter the U.S. on May .
According to police Sara Di Pietrantonio pleaded for help from passing motorists as her expartner attacked her. No one came to her aid.
Former South Carolina police officer Michael Slager has also been charged with murder and faces life in prison if convicted.
An yearold was found with her throat slashed and uterus removed days after telling school officials that her stepfather had impregnated her.
Paul Gatling was declared innocent Monday of killing a Brooklyn artist in . He served nine years in prison.
A passing mountain biker found the dogs body on March in Washington state.
The charge comes after human remains thought to be missing PC Gordon Semple were found at a flat in London.
A murder investigation has been launched after the historian art dealer and rare books collector was found dead at his home on Thursday.
The incident took place yesterday afternoon and his body was discovered this morning by a passerby.
Police arrested a yearold man after human remains were found at an address in Southwark as part of the search for PC Gordon Semple.
Pablo Vasquez was executed Wednesday. The U.S. Supreme Court denied a request to stop his execution because of the trial courts conduct in excusing prospective jurors.
Angela Wrightson who was was killed by two teenagers who left her with more than injuries.
The owner of this website lasvegassun.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beddcddua.
A yearold Puyallup woman has died after being thrown off a car driven by her mentally ill daughter.
The Thurston County Sheriffs Office has switched gears in the search for Gail Doyle a yearold Olympia woman they believe was killed by James E. Stidd .
Dugan Lawton faces murder charges in Thurston County Superior Court for the shooting deaths of three people on June .
The Thurston County Sheriffs Office has arrested Dugan Lawton on suspicion of murder in connection to last weeks fatal shootings on Dutterow Road.
Michael E. Caton was released from custody May after the alleged victim told police the wrong suspect had been arrested four days earlier.
Thurston County Sheriff John Snaza announces an arrest in the June triple homicide on Dutterow Road.
The Thurston County Sheriffs Office located a man believed to be a material witness in a June fatal shooting on the block of Dutterow Road.
Bail was set at for an Olympia man accused of causing a fatal crash on Joint Base LewisMcChord Saturday night.
McCann Patricia Olympia died Tuesday June at Providence St. Peter Hospital Olympia. Funeral Alternatives of Washington Tumwater . 
For members of the Northwest Detention Center Resistance Thursdays U.S. Supreme Courts decision on immigration reform was personal. 
Thurston County Sheriffs detectives are investigating an early Wednesday shooting that left three people dead and one injured inside a small camping trailer east of Lacey. 
Four Olympia men were arrested Friday after they allegedly used Score a used sporting goods shop as a front to sell and use drugs.
Nearly two weeks after her disappearance and presumed murder Gail Doyles family members just want to bring their beloved mother sister and aunt home.
Gail Doyles nephew Ryan Berlin visited Thurston County Superior Court on Tuesday June for the arraignment of James E. Stidd the man suspected of killing Doyle.
Thurston County sheriffs detectives are investigating an early morning shooting near Lacey that left three people dead and one injured.
Four people were shot and three dead after a shooting on Dutterow Road SE near Lacey.
Sights and sounds as investigators follow up on a quadruple shooting on Dutterow Road SE.
Bail was set at for a man accused of threatening to stab an Olympia resident who had found him hiding beneath a truck.
A man accused of shooting a camping companion on Joint Base LewisMcChord was sentenced Tuesday to three months behind bars.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
Crime and criminal justice news from across England Scotland Wales and Northern Ireland. Updated throughout the day every day.
Officers attended and the man aged was taken to a south London hospital.
Arvydas Filipavicius .. a Lithuanian national of Station Parade Dagenham carried out three robberies and an attempted robbery in the space of a week threatening staff with a BB gun to steal cash.
Eight men have been jailed today Wednesday May for a total of years for defrauding elderly people out of approximately million.The Old Bailey previously heard that the group was involved in what was described as an industrialscale conspiracy.
On Wednesday May Frederic Andre Russell pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to manslaughter due to diminished responsibility.He was sentenced to a hospital order under section of the Mental Health Act and also given a restriction order under.
Officers attended and the yearold man was taken by London Ambulance Service to a south London hospital where he.
Gary Cawthorne of Greenhithe Kent pleaded guilty to two counts of sexual assault on a child under years of age one count of grooming and one count of a breach of a Sexual Offences Prevention Order SOPO at Southwark Crown Court on Tuesday .
Officers from Barnet are renewing appeals to trace two men following a robbery. 
The victim was taken to hospital where his condition is described as serious but stable.
Two teenagers were jailed on Friday April for a series of mopedenabled robberies and robberies to take mopeds in Forest Gate and Stratford over a twoweek period in October and November . 
Plain clothed officers have witnessed men encouraging members of the public to participate in playing cup and ball which entices the public to gamble with no chance of winning. 
Tony Henry of Dagenhem Avenue Dagenham was found guilty of attempted murder following a trial at Snaresbrook Crown Court. He was sentenced on Friday April to years imprisonment with a fiveyear extended licence. 
A man who sent approximately tweets campaigning for Daesh has been jailed for five years.Mohammed Moshin Ameen of Dagenham was sentenced to five years imprisonment for one count of supporting a proscribed organisation and four years.
Police are reiterating appeals for the publics help to find a missing teenage boy from Lewisham.
A husband and wife have been charged with fundraising offences under the Terrorism Act.Mohammed Iqbal Golamaully and Nazimabee Golamaully from South London are jointly charged with one count of fundraising on or before August contrary to Section of the Terrorism Act .
Maxine Benson .. of no fixed address was found guilty of the murder of yearold Alfie Stone at the Old Bailey on Tuesday April.On Monday November Alfie along with his brother and two female friends attended an address in High Road Ickenham.
A man has been convicted of seven sexual assaults following a series of attacks in the space of ten days targeting women in Clapham and Brixton Hill.Mehdi Midani of no fixed address was found guilty of six counts on Tuesday April and admitted.
Two men age and were taken to a west London hospital for treatment to gunshot injuries.
Fitzroy Masters of Kimberley Road N was found guilty following a fiveweek trial at Croydon Crown Court of one count of kidnap one count of grievous bodily harm GBH with intent and possession of a firearm with intent to cause fear of violence.
Jemal Williams of Berkeley Gardens N was convicted of killing yearold Shaquan SammyPlummer after refusing to let him attend a party at his house.Williams chased him down the street and stabbed him in the chest before fleeing the scene.
Kamil Czarnomski a Polish national of no fixed address pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey on Monday April to the murder of yearold Pawel Chwalinski.Pawels body was found on the evening of November in an underpass below the.
Detectives from the Mets Sexual Offences Exploitation and Child Abuse Command are appealing for information after a girl was raped in Haringey.The victim who is in her midteens was attacked at around pm on Saturday March near the playground and exercise equipment in Ducketts Common Park N.
Pedro Antonio Baptista Boieiro a Portuguese national of Brigstock Road Thornton Heath has been charged with two counts of attempted rape and one count of rape.The first two counts relate to offences on December in Challice Way Streatham SW and on December in.
The Borough Commander of Richmond and Twickenham has been served with a notice of investigation and suspended from duty today Friday April following the receipt of allegations of inappropriate behaviour.The allegations were first reported to the Directorate of Professional Standards DPS on Wednesday April. The allegations are being investigated.
Following an investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission IPCC and a misconduct hearing lasting five days a panel made up of an independent representative a superintendent and chaired by Commander Julian Bennett have found that the case against a detective constable responsible for investigating an allegation of assault on .
This website follows the press complaints code of practice. Should you be dissatisfied with any content in regards to inaccuracy or intrusion then please contact the editor or contact the PCC directly.
The Seattle Times Crime section covers law enforcement by police prosecutors and courts in Seattle the Eastside King County the Northwest and nationwide. Topics include arrests and prosecution of suspects in cases of murder manslaughter rape and assault. Other topics are the federal courts the FBI Homeland Security and Justice Department oversight of the Seattle Police Department.
Officials said the suspect fired multiple shots at Algona police officers after a traffic stop.
Seattle Mayor Ed Murray said Tuesday he declined to extend the appointment of a police watchdog because the departments accountability system is in limbo land.
Seattle police say the man is a felon and not legally permitted to possess a firearm.
King County prosecutors have charged a yearold childcare worker in connection with alleged sexual conduct involving two yearold girls.
Officer Nicholas Hogan is charged with violating the civil rights of a restrained man he peppersprayed in in Harborview Medical Center.
The suspect Randy Lee Hall is a felon and barred from possessing firearms according to the U.S. Attorneys Office. He was wounded in the June.
David Stodden hasnt given up hope that the killer of his wife and daughter will be found someday. Its been years he says. They.
A teenage neighbor ignited a firework in the yard next door fire officials said.
Seattle police were searching for the person who shot a woman at a homeless encampment in the Sodo neighborhood.
A yearold man died June nearly two months after suffering a head injury after he was punched and struck his head. Prosecutors have charged.
HALTON A yearold Mississauga man is facing fraudrelated charges following an alleged online.
NEWFOUNDLAND Three Bracebridge men are implicated in trafficking large amounts of cocaine into St. Johns Newfoundland.
Lately when evening comes crowds in West Phoenix start to clear from neighborhood grocery stores. Concerned parents call.
Police say yearold Andrew Costa has been known to frequent the Hamilton area.
Hamilton police are searching for a man who stole lottery tickets from a Mountain gas station before fleeing on a bicycle.
Two men were sent to hospital with stab wounds after a fight on Beach Drive early Saturday morning.
ST. CATHARINES Niagara Regional Police arrested six people after an investigation that began in April into the alleged sale.
yearold Hamilton man charged with impaired and possession of cocaine for trafficking.
A yearold boy was chased and caught by police after an yearold woman was knocked to the ground and had her purse.
Peel Regional Police have yet to officially comment on reports Thursday morning that the deadly house explosion in.
OAKVILLE Halton police are investigating after a coin collection valued at nearly was stolen from an Oakville home.
The Los Angeles County district attorney has asked Gov. Jerry Brown to deny parole for former Manson family member Leslie.
STATE COLLEGE Pa. AP More than former Penn State football players are petitioning university leaders to return the bronze statue of
DALLAS AP Former U.S. President George W. Bush is bicycling with wounded veterans on the same day a British inquiry has been released on
With just a few taps of the My Sitters App you can book and confirm trusted reliable sitters.
Raquel Dadomo Wheatsville Food CoOp brand manager shared a cake recipe the kids can help make.
Texas Ethics Commission is releasing how Attorney General Ken Paxton is paying for his legal defense on fraud charges.
Joshua Collins was charged with aggravated assault with a deadly weapon a second degree felony.
He was charged with destroying selling or molesting turtles eggs or their nests which is a third degree felony.
A disciplinary memo states the offduty firefighter fell asleep while in a drivethru lane at a fast food restaurant.
Her ribs are broken. He beat her ribs and breast saying her milk was useless and she was worthless.
Court documents say witnesses saw the suspect make stabbing motions to Lapaso following a verbal altercation
Police say both cases happened at separate locations along I Saturday morning.
It was the deadliest attack in Iraq since July and among the worst single bombings in more than a decade of war and insurgency
Patrick Johnson was arrested June and accused of committing the lions share of I rock throwing attacks Police Chief Art Aceve
She was placed into a police vehicle by herself where dash cam footage showed her asking herself repeatedly Why didnt it work
A person is in custody in connection with the stabbing on Montopolis Drive and Felix Avenue Friday morning.
An eightmonth investigation uncovered illegal activity by two prison gangs believed to be selling methamphetamines to Austin.
Billy and Natalee Funderburgh were riding their motorcycle late Sunday night when a suspected drunk driver drove up and hit them from behind
Jose Moreno was found shot to death in a parking lot on I and Rundberg Lane.
Tinoco is charged with causing the death of his grandmother Paula Virignia CarabajalVargas in Luvianos Mexico last year.
Police are searching for the three men who are accused of stealing from the disabled victim.
Authorities were initially called to a car crash on June but the victim didnt die from the crash but rather a gunshot wound.
Austin Police said a SWAT situation at a Northwest Austin home ended peacefully Wednesday night.
A document provided by the familys attorney suggested settlements and verdicts paying out million to . million in wrongful death cas
LIN Television of Texas LP a Media General company. All rights reserved.
WASHINGTON AP The U.S. will slow the pace of its troop drawdown in Afghanistan leaving troops there when President Barack Obama c
DALLAS AP Former U.S. President George W. Bush is bicycling with wounded veterans on the same day a British inquiry has been released on
That contract also spells out required response times for three categories of calls.
Rural Metros new regional director makes changes aimed at improving ambulance response times in Buffalo
Buffalo Bills fans have a bit of a rowdy reputation due to certain antics that have been captured on video especially this past season. Tho
The yearold spent five seasons as an assistant with the Washington Capitals and the Anaheim Ducks prior to his last stop as head coach a
If convicted of the charges against him Austin could spend a maximum of years in prison.
His blood alcohol content was . percent more than three times the legal alcohol limit according to Troopers.
Buffalo Police have a new specialized team trained to keep the peace during civil disorder.
One person is dead and four others hurt after four separate shootings on Buffalos East side. Police say over the holiday weekend they some
Deputies say they noticed Jamestown resident Amber Rasmussen speeding through the Village of Mayville shortly before midnight on Sunday
Starting in April authorities say Kevin Fox created multiple online personas and began using new phone numbers to threaten and obtain 
State Police believe this to be a homicide but it is not clear who the victim is.
As deputies were checking out the scene they say a man ran from the building. He was later identified as yearold Sean OConnor.
She was jailed in Wyoming County on bail and will return to court in September.
A man from South Carolina is charged with shoplifting after deputies say he hid three packages of meat in his shorts at a grocery store.
Police are currently interviewing witnesses and believe that the victim and shooter knew each other.
The driver was hospitalized with nonlife threatening injuries. It is not yet clear what charges they will be facing.
Neighbors said theyre concerned about the loitering outside of the corner store and many call it a drug corner.
Police are still looking for the driver in a silver car with outoftown plates.
A brawl between two women in a Niagara County KMart store ended with one woman stabbed in the face.
If convicted of the charges against him Austin could spend a maximum of years in prison.
LIN Television Corporation a Media General company. All rights reserved.
Police say a man who had been on the run from the Logan County jail for a week showed up tired and hungry at a local bar Tuesday night to have a beer before turning himself in. 
Police are investigating after two men said they were shot late Monday in downtown Little Rock.
Little Rock police said they arrested one man and were searching for another after a dispute over a stained shirt led to a shooting that injured one person Monday.
A man was beaten and robbed at gunpoint early Monday in Little Rock police reported.
Police arrested a year old man Tuesday after he fled from officers and caused a traffic accident in Little Rock according to an arrest report.
Kenneth Dewitt the former chaplain at a womens state prison sat silently and alone in the back row of a Sharp County courtroom Tuesday for about a halfhour before he heard his name called.
A judge on Tuesday declined a teenage capitalmurder suspects request to attend a relatives funeral.
Little Rock police said Tuesday that a woman killed her exboyfriend in a shooting Monday afternoon.
Authorities will extradite a Blytheville couple who were arrested in Indiana after they were accused of stabbing their landlord Monday said Capt. Scott Adams commander of the Blytheville Police Departments Criminal Investigation Division.
The Logan County sheriff is asking the U.S. Marshals Service and the Arkansas State Police for additional help in the search for a jail escapee who the sheriff suspects has left the Paris area.
A man found shot in the neck in Pine Bluff last month has died from his injuries authorities said Tuesday.
Police said a dispute over a stained shirt led to a shooting Monday near a west Little Rock shopping center.
A former Arkansas prison chaplain whose case was set for August pleaded guilty Tuesday to three counts of sexual assault involving three female inmates.
A man found shot in the neck in Pine Bluff last month has died from his injuries authorities said Tuesday.
A Little Rock woman was arrested in the fatal shooting of a man Monday night and police allege the slaying stemmed from a lovers quarrel.
Convicted dismemberment killer Stephen Mark McDaniel who in spring pleaded guilty to the June murder of his Mercer University law school classmate Lauren Giddings is now being held at a state prison in Valdosta.
This is a video of Macon police interviewing Stephen McDaniel for the first time following the disappearance of his fellow Mercer University law student Lauren Giddings.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
A yearold man is recovering after being shot several times in the Mott Haven section . Read More 
A Bronx mother was charged in court Tuesday in the deaths of her two children . Read More 
Minority police officers and civil rights advocates demanded Tuesday that the city government launch an . Read More 
Police are searching for a man who allegedly took a cellphone from a yearold who . Read More 
An early morning shooting in Hunts Point has left one man wounded. Police say a . Read More 
Police are asking for the publics help finding a suspect wanted for allegedly groping an . Read More 
The family of a yearold slain Wednesday night in the Bronx is now left to . Read More 
Police seized pounds of packaged heroin and from the home on Harrison Avenue. . Read More 
Twenty members of an East Harlem gang are facing charges involving shootings assaults and gun . Read More 
An arrest has been made in the murder of a Bronx man who was shot . Read More 
Officials say a violent fight inside a Mott Haven Housing Project sent four men to . Read More 
Surveillance video shows people fleeing as shots rang out near a day care center in . Read More 
Three people were arraigned Wednesday in last years fatal shooting of Carey Gabay who was . Read More 
Police are searching for a man wanted for forcible touching. The incident happened on June . Read More 
Two men were injured in two separate crimes on Southern Boulevard this morning. Police say . Read More 
Workers at a Bronx cabaret are accused of selling drugs inside the club. . Read More 
Members of one Bronx community are calling on the district attorney to drop the case . Read More 
Police have issued a crime alert advising Bronx residents to keep a close eye on . Read More 
Police have released video of the two suspects wanted for a shooting on Tiffany Street . Read More 
Police released yearold Robinson Deondre from custody after arresting him for the murder of yearold . Read More 
A man was injured in a shooting on Webster Avenue just after p.m. Saturday . Read More 
An yearold man was found stabbed to death inside the th floor of his Coop . Read More 
Criminal justice students at Monroe College took part in a policestyle shooting simulation Thursday to . Read More 
Two students were taken into custody after they brought a BB gun into a school . Read More 
A man who killed his mother and dumped her body in a plastic bin was . Read More 
Police say someone either shot a BB gun or threw a rock through the window . Read More 
Police are seeking a man who they say robbed an yearold woman in broad daylight . Read More 
Antiviolence activists rallied Tuesday in response to a rash of shootings that marked the beginning . Read More 
A Bronx woman whose son died in a shooting on Mothers Day in Brooklyn pleaded . Read More 
Two men are in critical condition after being shot in the Bronx. A yearold man . Read More 
A lovers quarrel turned deadly when a Bronx woman stabbed her boyfriend in the chest . Read More 
The United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York says several NYPD members . Read More 
Jury selection began Monday for the trial of a man accused of killing a yearold . Read More 
Federal authorities raided a clinic on Southern Boulevard Monday and state prosecutors say its owner . Read More 
Police say the Bronx teen who was stabbed to death on Friday was followed by . Read More 
A yearold man who recently graduated from Fordham University was killed in a hitandrun in . Read More 
A yearold man is recovering in the hospital after he was stabbed in the neck . Read More 
Police say they have made an arrest in connection to a woman believed to have . Read More 
Police are looking for the suspect who robbed a yearold man throwing him to the . Read More 
A yearold man who was shot in the elbow in the Bronx was attempting to . Read More 
Police say a woman was fatally shot in the head inside her Wakefield home Wednesday . Read More 
Police are questioning a person of interest after a woman was fatally shot in the . Read More 
A man was shot while sitting in a van on Morris Avenue police say. A . Read More 
A man dressed in all black can be seen running up to a yearold man . Read More 
Police say a man tried to abduct a yearold boy near Yankee Stadium back in . Read More 
Three more corrections officers were found guilty Friday of beating Rikers Island inmate Jamal Lightfoot . Read More 
A community neighborhood watch group in the Bronx is working to make the area they . Read More 
Police are searching for two suspects who broke into a mans Bronx home and pistolwhipped . Read More 
Police are searching for a man who followed a yearold woman inside her apartment and . Read More 
A Bronx man was sentenced to years in prison for the slaying of . Read More 
Three men were caught on video smashing an arcade machine and stealing quarters before assaulting . Read More 
The arrested union leader for New York Citys jail guards says upon his release . Read More 
The arrested union leader for New York Citys jail guards says upon his release . Read More 
A man stole a livery cab drivers car while posing as a fare in the . Read More 
The FBI arrested a New York union leader Wednesday morning in connection with a multimilliondollar . Read More 
The FBI arrested a New York union leader Wednesday morning in connection with a multimilliondollar . Read More 
Police say a Bronx family lied to authorities about their yearold daughter being abducted by . Read More 
Five corrections officers were found guilty Tuesday in the beating of Rikers Island inmate . Read More 
Police say two men are wanted for stealing nearly from two Bronx businesses. It . Read More 
Access to News is free for Optimum Comcast Time Warner and Service Electric video customers.
Please enjoy complimentary views to articles photos and videos during the next days.
NCDOT traffic cameras captured a NC Highway Patrol police chase that started Tuesday morning in Johnston County and ended in northeast Raleigh.
Rolanda Byrd said there would be no doubt about what happened in the moments before her son was shot and killed by a Raleigh police officer if the officer had been wearing a body camera. 
A man wanted for robbery and assaulting a police officer was arrested Tuesday after leading Johnston County deputies and North Carolina state troopers on a vehicle chase through Johnston and Wake counties.
One person died in a Wake County wreck late Monday night in the block of Zebulon Road.
Illegal fireworks sparked a fire and caused about in damages Monday to the roof of a downtown building.
A man charged in the death of a Charlotte college counselor has been extradited to North Carolina after being arrested in Nevada.
Another inmate at a North Carolina prison has stepped forward to say he was beaten while handcuffed.
The mother of a teen who died in a car crash is suing her exhusband for allowing the girl to drive.
Raleigh police Thursday charged a Clayton man with four counts of statutory rape involving a yearold girl in April May and June.
Police found a man shot to death Thursday night at the citys Weaver Street Park housing project on East Cornwallis Road they reported.
Bullets flew in a downtown Raleigh street early one Saturday morning in May when a man used his car to chase two robbers who had held up him and other customers waiting for a store to open early one Saturday morning police have disclosed.
The FBI says a Milwaukee woman added to its Most Wanted Fugitives list this week has been arrested in North Carolina.
Authorities in Salisbury have arrested a city police officer and accused him of stealing firearms from a family member.
The Independence Police Department in Missouri released surveillance video showing a Wendys employee assaulted by customers and climbing out of a window.
Passengers can be seen diving for cover when gunfire struck a RideKC bus in Kansas City Tuesday night. Cameras on the bus caught the passengers reactions as well as what appears to be glass falling from the bus.
Court documents show that a woman moved from Thailand to the Triangle last year and paid more than to the owners of a popular North Raleigh restaurant to become majority owner. But she got no documentation for the business agreement and her passport was taken away.
Until Wednesday yearold Ronald Williams of Raleigh had court dates on Friday and next week on a string of mostly minor charges but he got a new appointment for Thursday after Raleigh police charged him with trafficking in cocaine and heroin and other drug offenses.
A yearold Raleigh man accused two weeks ago of spending on other peoples credit card accounts now faces charges of shopping at stores in Cary and Garner with bogus credit cards to the tune of .
Colleen Janssen the Wake County prosecutor whose father was kidnapped by a gang leader she prosecuted has been put on paid leave while the district attorney looks into her misconduct on two unrelated cases.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
The Seattle Times Crime section covers law enforcement by police prosecutors and courts in Seattle the Eastside King County the Northwest and nationwide. Topics include arrests and prosecution of suspects in cases of murder manslaughter rape and assault. Other topics are the federal courts the FBI Homeland Security and Justice Department oversight of the Seattle Police Department.
Officials said the suspect fired multiple shots at Algona police officers after a traffic stop.
Seattle Mayor Ed Murray said Tuesday he declined to extend the appointment of a police watchdog because the departments accountability system is in limbo land.
Seattle police say the man is a felon and not legally permitted to possess a firearm.
King County prosecutors have charged a yearold childcare worker in connection with alleged sexual conduct involving two yearold girls.
Officer Nicholas Hogan is charged with violating the civil rights of a restrained man he peppersprayed in in Harborview Medical Center.
The suspect Randy Lee Hall is a felon and barred from possessing firearms according to the U.S. Attorneys Office. He was wounded in the June.
David Stodden hasnt given up hope that the killer of his wife and daughter will be found someday. Its been years he says. They.
A teenage neighbor ignited a firework in the yard next door fire officials said.
Seattle police were searching for the person who shot a woman at a homeless encampment in the Sodo neighborhood.
A yearold man died June nearly two months after suffering a head injury after he was punched and struck his head. Prosecutors have charged.
You dont have permission to access blogcategorynewsandeventssuddendeath
A yearold Puyallup woman has died after being thrown off a car driven by her mentally ill daughter.
The Thurston County Sheriffs Office has switched gears in the search for Gail Doyle a yearold Olympia woman they believe was killed by James E. Stidd .
Dugan Lawton faces murder charges in Thurston County Superior Court for the shooting deaths of three people on June .
The Thurston County Sheriffs Office has arrested Dugan Lawton on suspicion of murder in connection to last weeks fatal shootings on Dutterow Road.
Michael E. Caton was released from custody May after the alleged victim told police the wrong suspect had been arrested four days earlier.
Thurston County Sheriff John Snaza announces an arrest in the June triple homicide on Dutterow Road.
The Thurston County Sheriffs Office located a man believed to be a material witness in a June fatal shooting on the block of Dutterow Road.
Bail was set at for an Olympia man accused of causing a fatal crash on Joint Base LewisMcChord Saturday night.
McCann Patricia Olympia died Tuesday June at Providence St. Peter Hospital Olympia. Funeral Alternatives of Washington Tumwater . 
For members of the Northwest Detention Center Resistance Thursdays U.S. Supreme Courts decision on immigration reform was personal. 
Thurston County Sheriffs detectives are investigating an early Wednesday shooting that left three people dead and one injured inside a small camping trailer east of Lacey. 
Four Olympia men were arrested Friday after they allegedly used Score a used sporting goods shop as a front to sell and use drugs.
Nearly two weeks after her disappearance and presumed murder Gail Doyles family members just want to bring their beloved mother sister and aunt home.
Gail Doyles nephew Ryan Berlin visited Thurston County Superior Court on Tuesday June for the arraignment of James E. Stidd the man suspected of killing Doyle.
Thurston County sheriffs detectives are investigating an early morning shooting near Lacey that left three people dead and one injured.
Four people were shot and three dead after a shooting on Dutterow Road SE near Lacey.
Sights and sounds as investigators follow up on a quadruple shooting on Dutterow Road SE.
Bail was set at for a man accused of threatening to stab an Olympia resident who had found him hiding beneath a truck.
A man accused of shooting a camping companion on Joint Base LewisMcChord was sentenced Tuesday to three months behind bars.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
The two convicts both of them doing life for brutal murders winked knowingly at the prisons sewing instructor Joyce Mitchell. Were going to do a breakout they said. We need your help to get some tools. Richard Matt and David Sweat had been softening up Joyce for some time. Her job was to teach convicts how to use sewing machines. Now yearold Joyce married with a family was herself learning something that wasnt on the prison curriculum. Despite his viciousness Richard Matt possessed a certain cunning charm especially on the rare occasions in prison when there were women around. He had worked his powers of persuasion on Joyce Mitchell and befriended her. In turn she more 
Three months after his acquittal O.J. Simpson had claimed that his wife and Ron Goldman had been slain by The Casanova Killer Glen Rogers who provided details about the crime and suggested that he had been hired by O. J. Simpson to steal a pair of diamond earrings and if necessary to murder Nicole. There was no doubt that Rogers was a man who could have committed such a savage murder he had already done so The rundown motel in Tampa Florida was not the sort of place that pays too much attention to finesse or decorum. The maid servicing the groundfloor rooms that Tuesday morning in November ignored the Do more 
America was in turmoil. She had come triumphantly out of the First World War allied coalition into the Roaring Twenties. But on the home front a cancer of bigtime crime was eating away at the moral fibre of the nation turning politics business and society putrid with decay. The signs were there for all to see. In league with crooked politicians guntotin gangsters were taking over the country by stealth and strongarm tactics while lawabiding Americans looked on helplessly. The gangsters names were already writ as large in the nations chronicles as their th century counterparts. For Billy the Kid Jesse James and the Sundance Kid you could now read Al Capone MachineGun Kelly John more 
My husband is not well Nancy Kissel emailed a friend. I need to take care of something. Sorry I will be in touch soon. But her husband Robert a wealthy American banker was not merely unwell a Hong Kong court was told on June th . According to the prosecutors on November nd his wife spiked his strawberry milkshake with sedatives while he watched an American football match on TV. Then she used a lead statuette to bludgeon him to death attacking him so violently that the ornaments base was distorted. Each of the five blows to his head drove skull fragments deep enough into his brain to kill him. The next more 
Not to worry . we have extensive stocks of issues going back years all available to order online here.
Got a crimerelated question Chances are the answers are in the True Crime Library Just let us know the question you would like answered below.
Enter our free prize draw for your chance to win a paperback copy of The Great Diamond Heist by Gordon Bowers.
A pair of soldiers boots worn in the recently concluded Crimean War was at the centre of a murder at more 
The international politics of the Cold War entered unexpectedly and dramatically into the case of the Cosy Corner Store a more 
Sign up to the True Crime Library Bulletin and get exclusive crime stories free competitions and newsdelivered direct to your inbox.
WASHINGTON AP The U.S. will slow the pace of its troop drawdown in Afghanistan leaving troops there when President Barack Obama c
DALLAS AP Former U.S. President George W. Bush is bicycling with wounded veterans on the same day a British inquiry has been released on
That contract also spells out required response times for three categories of calls.
Rural Metros new regional director makes changes aimed at improving ambulance response times in Buffalo
Buffalo Bills fans have a bit of a rowdy reputation due to certain antics that have been captured on video especially this past season. Tho
The yearold spent five seasons as an assistant with the Washington Capitals and the Anaheim Ducks prior to his last stop as head coach a
If convicted of the charges against him Austin could spend a maximum of years in prison.
His blood alcohol content was . percent more than three times the legal alcohol limit according to Troopers.
Buffalo Police have a new specialized team trained to keep the peace during civil disorder.
One person is dead and four others hurt after four separate shootings on Buffalos East side. Police say over the holiday weekend they some
Deputies say they noticed Jamestown resident Amber Rasmussen speeding through the Village of Mayville shortly before midnight on Sunday
Starting in April authorities say Kevin Fox created multiple online personas and began using new phone numbers to threaten and obtain 
State Police believe this to be a homicide but it is not clear who the victim is.
As deputies were checking out the scene they say a man ran from the building. He was later identified as yearold Sean OConnor.
She was jailed in Wyoming County on bail and will return to court in September.
A man from South Carolina is charged with shoplifting after deputies say he hid three packages of meat in his shorts at a grocery store.
Police are currently interviewing witnesses and believe that the victim and shooter knew each other.
The driver was hospitalized with nonlife threatening injuries. It is not yet clear what charges they will be facing.
Neighbors said theyre concerned about the loitering outside of the corner store and many call it a drug corner.
Police are still looking for the driver in a silver car with outoftown plates.
A brawl between two women in a Niagara County KMart store ended with one woman stabbed in the face.
If convicted of the charges against him Austin could spend a maximum of years in prison.
LIN Television Corporation a Media General company. All rights reserved.
Around midnight on May Dana Seetahal a prominent attorney and former senator in Trinidad and Tobago had just left a casino in the capital of Port of Spain when her vehicle was stopped by another car blocking the road. A van pulled up alongside and let loose a burst of gunfire killing her in a wellorchestrated hit.
Her murder was one of approximately that have occurred in the Caribbean nation so far this year putting it on course for one of the highest murder rates in the world. The country saw only murders in . Last year there were .
VICE News visited the slums of Port of Spain and spoke with police activists community leaders and gangsters to understand the countrys decadeplus spike in killings. Many of the murders are attributed to ruthless and politically connected street gangs who control territories that are sometimes no larger than a city block. The gangs fight over lucrative government contracts meant to provide social services and combat unemployment.
But gang violence is merely a symptom of a bigger problem. Trinidad has become an important stop for drugs headed to West Africa and the United States. Many observers point to the big fish the nameless political and business elites who are behind drug trafficking and the culture of endemic corruption and murder that come with it. They are accused of turning a country rich in oil and gas deposits into their own personal narcostate fostering impunity through a web of bribes and murders. Unlike the profits from the energy industry however this phenomenon trickles all the way down to the street level.
port of spain trinidad and tobago murder cocaine drug trafficking corruption abu bakr trinidad vice vice news shortform docs 
HALTON A yearold Mississauga man is facing fraudrelated charges following an alleged online.
NEWFOUNDLAND Three Bracebridge men are implicated in trafficking large amounts of cocaine into St. Johns Newfoundland.
Lately when evening comes crowds in West Phoenix start to clear from neighborhood grocery stores. Concerned parents call.
Police say yearold Andrew Costa has been known to frequent the Hamilton area.
Hamilton police are searching for a man who stole lottery tickets from a Mountain gas station before fleeing on a bicycle.
Two men were sent to hospital with stab wounds after a fight on Beach Drive early Saturday morning.
ST. CATHARINES Niagara Regional Police arrested six people after an investigation that began in April into the alleged sale.
yearold Hamilton man charged with impaired and possession of cocaine for trafficking.
A yearold boy was chased and caught by police after an yearold woman was knocked to the ground and had her purse.
Peel Regional Police have yet to officially comment on reports Thursday morning that the deadly house explosion in.
OAKVILLE Halton police are investigating after a coin collection valued at nearly was stolen from an Oakville home.
The Los Angeles County district attorney has asked Gov. Jerry Brown to deny parole for former Manson family member Leslie.
Foxes academy to compete in EFL Trophy Abbey Park death being treated as murder and more of the latest news sport travel and weather for Leicestershire. 
Police launch a murder inquiry following the death of a man who was found injured near a boating lake.
A wildlife trust is celebrating years since it started a project to bring ospreys back to England after a year absence.
Listen to live BBC local radio commentary as Worcestershire face Leicestershire in the County Championship.
Premier League champions Leicester City agree a deal with CSKA Moscow to sign forward Ahmed Musa according to the players agent.
Around midnight on May Dana Seetahal a prominent attorney and former senator in Trinidad and Tobago had just left a casino in the capital of Port of Spain when her vehicle was stopped by another car blocking the road. A van pulled up alongside and let loose a burst of gunfire killing her in a wellorchestrated hit.
Her murder was one of approximately that have occurred in the Caribbean nation so far this year putting it on course for one of the highest murder rates in the world. The country saw only murders in . Last year there were .
VICE News visited the slums of Port of Spain and spoke with police activists community leaders and gangsters to understand the countrys decadeplus spike in killings. Many of the murders are attributed to ruthless and politically connected street gangs who control territories that are sometimes no larger than a city block. The gangs fight over lucrative government contracts meant to provide social services and combat unemployment.
But gang violence is merely a symptom of a bigger problem. Trinidad has become an important stop for drugs headed to West Africa and the United States. Many observers point to the big fish the nameless political and business elites who are behind drug trafficking and the culture of endemic corruption and murder that come with it. They are accused of turning a country rich in oil and gas deposits into their own personal narcostate fostering impunity through a web of bribes and murders. Unlike the profits from the energy industry however this phenomenon trickles all the way down to the street level.
port of spain trinidad and tobago murder cocaine drug trafficking corruption abu bakr trinidad vice vice news shortform docs 
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used
Crime and criminal justice news from across England Scotland Wales and Northern Ireland. Updated throughout the day every day.
Officers attended and the man aged was taken to a south London hospital.
Arvydas Filipavicius .. a Lithuanian national of Station Parade Dagenham carried out three robberies and an attempted robbery in the space of a week threatening staff with a BB gun to steal cash.
Eight men have been jailed today Wednesday May for a total of years for defrauding elderly people out of approximately million.The Old Bailey previously heard that the group was involved in what was described as an industrialscale conspiracy.
On Wednesday May Frederic Andre Russell pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to manslaughter due to diminished responsibility.He was sentenced to a hospital order under section of the Mental Health Act and also given a restriction order under.
Officers attended and the yearold man was taken by London Ambulance Service to a south London hospital where he.
Gary Cawthorne of Greenhithe Kent pleaded guilty to two counts of sexual assault on a child under years of age one count of grooming and one count of a breach of a Sexual Offences Prevention Order SOPO at Southwark Crown Court on Tuesday .
Officers from Barnet are renewing appeals to trace two men following a robbery. 
The victim was taken to hospital where his condition is described as serious but stable.
Two teenagers were jailed on Friday April for a series of mopedenabled robberies and robberies to take mopeds in Forest Gate and Stratford over a twoweek period in October and November . 
Plain clothed officers have witnessed men encouraging members of the public to participate in playing cup and ball which entices the public to gamble with no chance of winning. 
Tony Henry of Dagenhem Avenue Dagenham was found guilty of attempted murder following a trial at Snaresbrook Crown Court. He was sentenced on Friday April to years imprisonment with a fiveyear extended licence. 
A man who sent approximately tweets campaigning for Daesh has been jailed for five years.Mohammed Moshin Ameen of Dagenham was sentenced to five years imprisonment for one count of supporting a proscribed organisation and four years.
Police are reiterating appeals for the publics help to find a missing teenage boy from Lewisham.
A husband and wife have been charged with fundraising offences under the Terrorism Act.Mohammed Iqbal Golamaully and Nazimabee Golamaully from South London are jointly charged with one count of fundraising on or before August contrary to Section of the Terrorism Act .
Maxine Benson .. of no fixed address was found guilty of the murder of yearold Alfie Stone at the Old Bailey on Tuesday April.On Monday November Alfie along with his brother and two female friends attended an address in High Road Ickenham.
A man has been convicted of seven sexual assaults following a series of attacks in the space of ten days targeting women in Clapham and Brixton Hill.Mehdi Midani of no fixed address was found guilty of six counts on Tuesday April and admitted.
Two men age and were taken to a west London hospital for treatment to gunshot injuries.
Fitzroy Masters of Kimberley Road N was found guilty following a fiveweek trial at Croydon Crown Court of one count of kidnap one count of grievous bodily harm GBH with intent and possession of a firearm with intent to cause fear of violence.
Jemal Williams of Berkeley Gardens N was convicted of killing yearold Shaquan SammyPlummer after refusing to let him attend a party at his house.Williams chased him down the street and stabbed him in the chest before fleeing the scene.
Kamil Czarnomski a Polish national of no fixed address pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey on Monday April to the murder of yearold Pawel Chwalinski.Pawels body was found on the evening of November in an underpass below the.
Detectives from the Mets Sexual Offences Exploitation and Child Abuse Command are appealing for information after a girl was raped in Haringey.The victim who is in her midteens was attacked at around pm on Saturday March near the playground and exercise equipment in Ducketts Common Park N.
Pedro Antonio Baptista Boieiro a Portuguese national of Brigstock Road Thornton Heath has been charged with two counts of attempted rape and one count of rape.The first two counts relate to offences on December in Challice Way Streatham SW and on December in.
The Borough Commander of Richmond and Twickenham has been served with a notice of investigation and suspended from duty today Friday April following the receipt of allegations of inappropriate behaviour.The allegations were first reported to the Directorate of Professional Standards DPS on Wednesday April. The allegations are being investigated.
Following an investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission IPCC and a misconduct hearing lasting five days a panel made up of an independent representative a superintendent and chaired by Commander Julian Bennett have found that the case against a detective constable responsible for investigating an allegation of assault on .
This website follows the press complaints code of practice. Should you be dissatisfied with any content in regards to inaccuracy or intrusion then please contact the editor or contact the PCC directly.
An Abilene couple Phillip and Violet Walter was arrested during September for the murder of Abilene police officer Don Allen. 
An Abilene couple has been arrested for the murder of an Abilene police officer.
Violet Walter and Phillip Walter were taken into custody in the block of South Clack about p.m. Thursday in connection with the homicide of officer Don Russell Allen according to Abilene Police Chief Stan Standridge.
The Walters who are husband and wife were charged with firstdegree felony murder and punishment ranges from years to life in prison. Standridge said that charges could be added pending further investigation.
Allen was found dead in his residence on Yucca Drive in Clyde on Monday evening.
We were able to link the suspects to property taken from Don Allens residence Standridge said. Additionally physical evidence recovered at the scene has linked the suspects to the crime. While I cannot discuss the specifics we are confident that we have taken the correct people into custody. We do not believe there are any other suspects.
Standridge added that Allen still needs to be buried but he said that all of the money needed for Allens funeral has been raised. Allens funeral is set for Friday at a.m. with a procession and burial in Clyde following.
Abilene police say they have made a major break in the officer Don Allen homicide.
A KTXS photographer arrived to a scene near Pebble Creek Apartments in south Abilene and witnessed more than police cars leaving with a person in custody around p.m.
At the AbileneTaylor County Law Enforcement Center police were seen escorting a tall skinny man into the building.
In a news conference earlier Thursday Sgt. Lynn Beard said two people were sought by police for questioning. They were described as a tall skinny male and a short heavyset woman.
The investigation has been led by the Abilene Police Department and the Texas Rangers.
Copyright by KTXS All rights reserved. This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed.
To complete your registration on this site please supply an address.
Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
For a more personalized experience please supply the following optional information.
Guests at a luxury hotel where two people were found dead in a swimming pool thought investigating police were part of a murder mystery party. 
The man in his s and woman in her early s were found in their swimming costumes when they were pulled from the bottom of the pool by staff staff at the fourstar Down Hall Hotel on Saturday.
However the man in his early s and the woman who was in her early s were pronounced dead at the scene.
A policeman stands guard at the Down Hall Country House Hotel in Essex where the couple were discovered dead in the swimming pool on Saturday night
Mr Kpakiwa had been taking his girlfriend Josephine Foday on a surprise weekend away for her nd birthday
A picture posted on Twitter by a hotel guest showed the swimming pool area cordoned off by police
The hotel regularly hosts murder mystery weekends and some guests reportedly believed that the arrival of police was part of the package. 
Jo Carter and Frankie Heritage checked in yesterday afternoon for their first ever murder mystery and believed the whole crime scene had been staged.
We have never done a murder mystery before so we just thought theyd gone to a lot of expense.
It all just seemed to be part of the weekend with a policemen and a van at the gate.
It was only when we spoke to him the police officer and he explained that it would be much too expensive to stage with real police cars that we realised.
All the guests were talking over dinner about how it could have happened as it is a real life mystery.
The air ambulance helicopter was summoned to the acre estate but paramedics could not resuscitate the man and woman. 
Police said the pair from London checked in at the anight hotel together but could not confirm if they were a couple.
The hotel just pulled a curtain to separate us and the party still went on as normal. 
The hotel on the Hertfordshire border is a popular wedding venue. Jade Goody tied the knot there in 
Chief Inspector Nick Lee said his officers had found two people submersed in the pool. 
Postmortem examinations are expected to take place today and the coroner has been informed.
Down Hall Hotel is a popular wedding venue. It was used by Big Brother star Jade Goody when she married Jack Tweed.
It was used as a convalescent home for wounded soldiers in the First World War and was turned into a hotel in the s.
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
The owner of this website www.mangalorean.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beafdafua.
The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used
Crime and criminal justice news from across England Scotland Wales and Northern Ireland. Updated throughout the day every day.
Officers attended and the man aged was taken to a south London hospital.
Arvydas Filipavicius .. a Lithuanian national of Station Parade Dagenham carried out three robberies and an attempted robbery in the space of a week threatening staff with a BB gun to steal cash.
Eight men have been jailed today Wednesday May for a total of years for defrauding elderly people out of approximately million.The Old Bailey previously heard that the group was involved in what was described as an industrialscale conspiracy.
On Wednesday May Frederic Andre Russell pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to manslaughter due to diminished responsibility.He was sentenced to a hospital order under section of the Mental Health Act and also given a restriction order under.
Officers attended and the yearold man was taken by London Ambulance Service to a south London hospital where he.
Gary Cawthorne of Greenhithe Kent pleaded guilty to two counts of sexual assault on a child under years of age one count of grooming and one count of a breach of a Sexual Offences Prevention Order SOPO at Southwark Crown Court on Tuesday .
Officers from Barnet are renewing appeals to trace two men following a robbery. 
The victim was taken to hospital where his condition is described as serious but stable.
Two teenagers were jailed on Friday April for a series of mopedenabled robberies and robberies to take mopeds in Forest Gate and Stratford over a twoweek period in October and November . 
Plain clothed officers have witnessed men encouraging members of the public to participate in playing cup and ball which entices the public to gamble with no chance of winning. 
Tony Henry of Dagenhem Avenue Dagenham was found guilty of attempted murder following a trial at Snaresbrook Crown Court. He was sentenced on Friday April to years imprisonment with a fiveyear extended licence. 
A man who sent approximately tweets campaigning for Daesh has been jailed for five years.Mohammed Moshin Ameen of Dagenham was sentenced to five years imprisonment for one count of supporting a proscribed organisation and four years.
Police are reiterating appeals for the publics help to find a missing teenage boy from Lewisham.
A husband and wife have been charged with fundraising offences under the Terrorism Act.Mohammed Iqbal Golamaully and Nazimabee Golamaully from South London are jointly charged with one count of fundraising on or before August contrary to Section of the Terrorism Act .
Maxine Benson .. of no fixed address was found guilty of the murder of yearold Alfie Stone at the Old Bailey on Tuesday April.On Monday November Alfie along with his brother and two female friends attended an address in High Road Ickenham.
A man has been convicted of seven sexual assaults following a series of attacks in the space of ten days targeting women in Clapham and Brixton Hill.Mehdi Midani of no fixed address was found guilty of six counts on Tuesday April and admitted.
Two men age and were taken to a west London hospital for treatment to gunshot injuries.
Fitzroy Masters of Kimberley Road N was found guilty following a fiveweek trial at Croydon Crown Court of one count of kidnap one count of grievous bodily harm GBH with intent and possession of a firearm with intent to cause fear of violence.
Jemal Williams of Berkeley Gardens N was convicted of killing yearold Shaquan SammyPlummer after refusing to let him attend a party at his house.Williams chased him down the street and stabbed him in the chest before fleeing the scene.
Kamil Czarnomski a Polish national of no fixed address pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey on Monday April to the murder of yearold Pawel Chwalinski.Pawels body was found on the evening of November in an underpass below the.
Detectives from the Mets Sexual Offences Exploitation and Child Abuse Command are appealing for information after a girl was raped in Haringey.The victim who is in her midteens was attacked at around pm on Saturday March near the playground and exercise equipment in Ducketts Common Park N.
Pedro Antonio Baptista Boieiro a Portuguese national of Brigstock Road Thornton Heath has been charged with two counts of attempted rape and one count of rape.The first two counts relate to offences on December in Challice Way Streatham SW and on December in.
The Borough Commander of Richmond and Twickenham has been served with a notice of investigation and suspended from duty today Friday April following the receipt of allegations of inappropriate behaviour.The allegations were first reported to the Directorate of Professional Standards DPS on Wednesday April. The allegations are being investigated.
Following an investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission IPCC and a misconduct hearing lasting five days a panel made up of an independent representative a superintendent and chaired by Commander Julian Bennett have found that the case against a detective constable responsible for investigating an allegation of assault on .
Anne Arundel County Police arrested a yearold man in connection with a shooting at a Crownsville party last month. 
The Department of Recreation and Parks is offering a reward of up to for anyone with information that can lead to an arrest. 
DalanPlummer ofLandoverHills Maryland was shot on June and died from his injuries on July . 
Baltimore City Police reported two people dead and one person injured after separate overnight shootings. 
One family is hoping an increased reward will lead to answers in murder. 
Anne Arundel Police are looking for two men they say stole prescription drugs from a pharmacy Tuesday morning. 
Ten months ago Troy Midder was murdered outside a Baltimore City gas station. 
An adult male dies after being shot in the chest Sunday afternoon in southwest Baltimore according to police. 
Prominent Modesto criminal defense attorney Frank Carson and eight others including three California Highway Patrol officers were arrested Friday for their suspected involvement in the death of Korey Kauffman. The yearold Turlock mans body was found in Mariposa County a year and a half after he went missing.
A page arrest affidavit details an alleged conspiracy with Carson as its ringleader. The defense attorney who last year ran for district attorney is described as a vengeful property owner trying to send a message to people allegedly stealing scrap metal and antiques from his property in Turlock.
Authorities say Kauffman was known for scrapping street slang for stealing metals to sell to recyclers. On the night of his disappearance Kauffman left a friends home to steal irrigation pipes from Carsons property according to the affidavit.
The whole scrapper life I didnt approve of it said Tony Kauffman the victims father. You know how fathers are with their sons we tend to be harder on them. But he chose his own path. He was a good kid with a good heart and he didnt deserve what he got.
The Stanislaus County Sheriffs Department has released the arrest affidavit which lists nine people arrested including Carsons wife two Turlock business owners and the three CHP officers.
Along with the murder charge Carson faces charges of criminal conspiracy false imprisonment and two counts of soliciting a crime. Those in the affidavit charged with murder also face an enhancement for the use of a gun in the homicide and a special circumstance allegation of lying in wait.
Carson has said that any suggestion hes involved in Kauffmans death is absurd. Until Friday officials involved in the investigation had refused to say whether Carson is a suspect in the murder saying it would be inappropriate to comment on the pending case.
As part of the Kauffman investigation authorities searched Carsons property not long after Kauffman went missing. Authorities believe Kauffman was killed on March somewhere in the Turlock area and his body was secretly transported to Mariposa County where hunters discovered it in August .
Percy Martinez Carsons attorney told The Modesto Bee on Friday that he and his client have been waiting more than a year for authorities to make their allegations public instead of investigators frequently bringing up Carsons name while questioning witnesses and suspects in the Kauffman case. Martinez said they look forward to fighting the allegations in court and clearing Carsons name.
Carsons wife Georgia Geanette DeFilippo faces charges of firstdegree murder criminal conspiracy and false imprisonment. Her daughter Cristina Anne DeFilippo was arrested on suspicion of criminal conspiracy and being an accessory.
Baljit Athwal and his brother Daljit Atwal who spell their last names differently have been arrested on suspicion of firstdegree murder criminal conspiracy and false imprisonment.
The brothers who own the PopNCork Liquor stores in Turlock have claimed repeated harassment by law enforcement officials involved in the Kauffman murder investigation and organized protests outside the District Attorneys Office in downtown Modesto. They also have filed a federal lawsuit against members of a local investigative task force looking into the murder.
Robert Lee Woody is listed as an arrestee in the affidavit charged with firstdegree murder criminal conspiracy and false imprisonment. But Woody has been in custody since last year and was the only person charged with murder in Kauffmans death until this week. Authorities had not publicly identified Woodys alleged coconspirators.
During Woodys arraignment last year Kauffmans father said the suspect was just a small fry in the extensive investigation which took years and was investigated by a task force of detectives from the Sheriffs Department District Attorneys Office and Modesto Police Department. 
I didnt know the quantity but I knew there was going to be a few more people arrested than just Woody Tony Kauffman said Friday. It feels pretty good. Weve come a long way and its only just beginning. . We have a long road ahead of us. 
CHP officers Walter Wesley Wells Scott J. McFarlane and Eduardo Quintanar Jr. also have been arrested in connection with the Turlock mans murder. Wells is charged with firstdegree murder criminal conspiracy and false imprisonment. McFarlane and Quintanar are charged with criminal conspiracy and being an accessory. 
At a Friday afternoon news conference CHP Commissioner Joe Farrow said Wells no longer works for the agency. Wells had been with the CHP for seven years until June when his employment ended as a result of conduct unrelated to the murder investigation according to Farrow who said all three officers knew each other.
According to the affidavit the CHP officers involved in this investigation have all attempted to use the office of the California Highway Patrol to thwart the investigators attempts to interview them.
McFarlane and Quintanar were placed on administrative leave as soon as the task force concluded the Kauffman murder investigation. Farrow said their peace officer powers have been revoked pending the result of an internal investigation. McFarlane had been with the CHP for years and Quintanar for years. Wells and McFarlane most recently worked in the Merced area and Quintanar most recently worked in the Modesto area.
I am here saddened by this news Farrow said during the news conference. The California Highway Patrol is a very proud organization that values integrity to hear news like this is devastating.
He said news of officers involved in an alleged criminal conspiracy affects all law enforcement agencies and it rips at the soul of an organization. 
Carson has been an outspoken critic of Stanislaus County District Attorney Birgit Fladager and her office while making arguments in court and during his unsuccessful bid for district attorney last year. 
He has challenged the District Attorneys Office on several fronts in recent years including filing a civil lawsuit against the county and a prosecution investigator accused of harassing Carson in a courthouse hallway. The civil trial was scheduled to start this week but it was suddenly postponed and hasnt been rescheduled. Carson said Tuesday that he had no idea why it was delayed.
Martinez said hes not surprised by the timing of the arrests considering the civil trial that was supposed to start this week. Whenever Mr. Carson shakes their tree they law enforcement officials turn around and shake his tree.
Carson also has pushed for contempt charges against the prosecution investigator and a chief prosecutor who also was handling the murder case against Woody.
Investigator Steve Jacobson is accused of questioning an alternate juror while the jury deliberated in the trial of one of Carsons clients. Chief Deputy District Attorney Dave Harris is accused of failing to promptly notify the court that Jacobson had improper contact with an alternate juror. The contempt case was put on hold pending an appellate court decision on whether Carson is allowed to participate in that court proceeding.
Carsons attorney suggested that authorities arrested his client on a Friday so he would have to wait all weekend in the county jail before making his first court appearance early next week. Authorities have hours to bring a defendant before a judge for his arraignment where the defendant can ask for his bail amount to be set. On Friday afternoon Carson and others charged with murder were being held without bail.
Local investigators on Friday declined to answer any questions about the murder investigation directing news reporters to the lengthy arrest affidavit that details the year investigation.
It took a lot of work it took a lot of time . and it has finally come together Fladager said about the multiagency task force.
She said prosecutors are expected to file formal charges early next week and the defendants are expected to make their first court appearance.
Stanislaus County Sheriff Adam Christianson said the investigation would not have been possible without the diligent work of Mariposa County sheriffs Detective Sherre Hendricks. We hope to serve justice to the Kauffman family Christianson said.
Kauffmans father was reading the arrest affidavit chronicling the evidence gathered in his sons slaying. He said hed only just begun Friday morning but was surprised by some of the information such as the arrest of McFarlane.
The CHP officer lived next door to Korey Kauffman so Tony Kauffman sought him for guidance about the intricacies of missing persons investigations. I am old school I look up to police officers he said. You dont expect them to be involved in the murder of your child thats for damn sure.
Farrow offered his condolences to the victims family saying I cant even imagine what news like this does to family and friends.
Crime and criminal justice news from across England Scotland Wales and Northern Ireland. Updated throughout the day every day.
Officers attended and the man aged was taken to a south London hospital.
Arvydas Filipavicius .. a Lithuanian national of Station Parade Dagenham carried out three robberies and an attempted robbery in the space of a week threatening staff with a BB gun to steal cash.
Eight men have been jailed today Wednesday May for a total of years for defrauding elderly people out of approximately million.The Old Bailey previously heard that the group was involved in what was described as an industrialscale conspiracy.
On Wednesday May Frederic Andre Russell pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to manslaughter due to diminished responsibility.He was sentenced to a hospital order under section of the Mental Health Act and also given a restriction order under.
Officers attended and the yearold man was taken by London Ambulance Service to a south London hospital where he.
Gary Cawthorne of Greenhithe Kent pleaded guilty to two counts of sexual assault on a child under years of age one count of grooming and one count of a breach of a Sexual Offences Prevention Order SOPO at Southwark Crown Court on Tuesday .
Officers from Barnet are renewing appeals to trace two men following a robbery. 
The victim was taken to hospital where his condition is described as serious but stable.
Two teenagers were jailed on Friday April for a series of mopedenabled robberies and robberies to take mopeds in Forest Gate and Stratford over a twoweek period in October and November . 
Plain clothed officers have witnessed men encouraging members of the public to participate in playing cup and ball which entices the public to gamble with no chance of winning. 
Tony Henry of Dagenhem Avenue Dagenham was found guilty of attempted murder following a trial at Snaresbrook Crown Court. He was sentenced on Friday April to years imprisonment with a fiveyear extended licence. 
A man who sent approximately tweets campaigning for Daesh has been jailed for five years.Mohammed Moshin Ameen of Dagenham was sentenced to five years imprisonment for one count of supporting a proscribed organisation and four years.
Police are reiterating appeals for the publics help to find a missing teenage boy from Lewisham.
A husband and wife have been charged with fundraising offences under the Terrorism Act.Mohammed Iqbal Golamaully and Nazimabee Golamaully from South London are jointly charged with one count of fundraising on or before August contrary to Section of the Terrorism Act .
Maxine Benson .. of no fixed address was found guilty of the murder of yearold Alfie Stone at the Old Bailey on Tuesday April.On Monday November Alfie along with his brother and two female friends attended an address in High Road Ickenham.
A man has been convicted of seven sexual assaults following a series of attacks in the space of ten days targeting women in Clapham and Brixton Hill.Mehdi Midani of no fixed address was found guilty of six counts on Tuesday April and admitted.
Two men age and were taken to a west London hospital for treatment to gunshot injuries.
Fitzroy Masters of Kimberley Road N was found guilty following a fiveweek trial at Croydon Crown Court of one count of kidnap one count of grievous bodily harm GBH with intent and possession of a firearm with intent to cause fear of violence.
Jemal Williams of Berkeley Gardens N was convicted of killing yearold Shaquan SammyPlummer after refusing to let him attend a party at his house.Williams chased him down the street and stabbed him in the chest before fleeing the scene.
Kamil Czarnomski a Polish national of no fixed address pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey on Monday April to the murder of yearold Pawel Chwalinski.Pawels body was found on the evening of November in an underpass below the.
Detectives from the Mets Sexual Offences Exploitation and Child Abuse Command are appealing for information after a girl was raped in Haringey.The victim who is in her midteens was attacked at around pm on Saturday March near the playground and exercise equipment in Ducketts Common Park N.
Pedro Antonio Baptista Boieiro a Portuguese national of Brigstock Road Thornton Heath has been charged with two counts of attempted rape and one count of rape.The first two counts relate to offences on December in Challice Way Streatham SW and on December in.
The Borough Commander of Richmond and Twickenham has been served with a notice of investigation and suspended from duty today Friday April following the receipt of allegations of inappropriate behaviour.The allegations were first reported to the Directorate of Professional Standards DPS on Wednesday April. The allegations are being investigated.
Following an investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission IPCC and a misconduct hearing lasting five days a panel made up of an independent representative a superintendent and chaired by Commander Julian Bennett have found that the case against a detective constable responsible for investigating an allegation of assault on .
This website follows the press complaints code of practice. Should you be dissatisfied with any content in regards to inaccuracy or intrusion then please contact the editor or contact the PCC directly.
Police are looking for three people after restaurant employees were assaulted robbed Tuesday night.
GREENSBORO A woman was robbed at gunpoint Tuesday night on West Friendly Avenue.
GREENSBORO Police arrested a yearold Greensboro man today in connection with a Fourth of July assault and attempted robbery.
GREENSBORO Police arrested a Greensboro man today in a triplestabbing that left two men seriously injured.
Prosecutors saidJhustyn Mitchell isa highranking validated gang member who is charged in fatal shooting of Jay Jay Tremaine Allen who they called collateral damage.
The victim was approached by a man in a white sedan and was cut then the suspect drove off police said.
A woman was injured in WinstonSalem Monday night when two other people shot at each other police said.
Police are searching for the person who stabbed two women Monday afternoon killing one of them.
GREENSBORO Police today are investigating a double stabbing that left one victim in critical condition.
GRAHAM Donald Bradsher and George Smith III agree Smith wrecked his car at a South Carolina racetrack in March but who was responsible and who will pay is now the subject of a lawsuit and counterclaim.
The male suspect drove up to the victim got out of his vehicle and as the victim ran the suspect shot him in the left leg according to a Greensboro police news release.
WINSTONSALEM Police are looking for a man who robbed a tobacco store Saturday morning.
The bad news is that assaults involving firearms in Greensboro have spiked percent since last year.
GREENSBORO A magistrate set bail at million for a Greensboro woman accused of using forged prescriptions to buy opiates.
KERNERSVILLE Officers responding to reports of a shooting found a male victim with a gunshot wound to a leg according to a police news release.
ASHEBORO Police have charged a Ramseur woman in connection with the death of Gary Jarmaine Jackson III.
WINSTONSALEM A robber shot the manager of a WinstonSalem restaurant late Friday evening.
GREENSBORO Police are investigating this mornings homeinvasion robbery in Greensboro.
The murder trial of Randy Steven Cagle focused on his mental state Thursday during presentation of evidence by the defense.
Police charged an Asheboro man with Wednesdays knifepoint robbery of a Burlington store.
Implementing a plan nearly a year in the making on Saturday the Burlington Police Department will have its officers begin permanent shifts.
MOUNT AIRY There is no indication that a Laotian woman was a victim of a hate crime when she was fatally shot in her rice garden in North Carolina an authority said Thursday.
GREENSBORO Highway contractors will begin a sixmonth effort to replace the bridge that carries Coble Church Road over North Prong Stinking Quarter Creek near Pleasant Garden.
WINSTONSALEM N.C. Department of Transportation crews will close Crescent Road at Anthony Road north of Rockwell.
GREENSBORO Police arrested two men today in Thursdays armed robbery in Greensboro.
A magistrate set bail at million for a yearold man accused of setting fire to an occupied apartment building in June.
Beginning Friday all Davidson County employees will be able to take advantage of the countys latest health benefit a smartphone app that allows patients to make virtual doctors visits from any location.
HIGH POINT Police are looking for two men who they say were involved in four recent shootings.
A man was robbed at gunpoint early this morning when three people broke into his house.
A WinstonSalem woman convicted Thursday of faking a bomb threat at a downtown church told authorities that an Arab man delivered a suspicious package and threatened her with a knife.
Police are searching for two men who robbed two other people at gunpoint Thursday night.
GREENSBORO Police are warning Greensboro residents about a traveling group of thieves who scam their way into elderly residents homes and burglarize them according to a police news release.
SUMMERFIELD Emergency personnel responded this afternoon to a vehicle fire involving injuries at Branson Road in Summerfield according to dispatchers.
TRINITY Law enforcement agencies seized nine firearms when they raided a suspected methamphetamine lab in Trinity Wednesday.
WINSTONSALEM Officers responding to reports of marijuana growing found five plants valued at in a mans backyard Wednesday according to a police news release.
A High Point man accused of shooting at another man earlier this month was arrested Wednesday and charged with assault with a deadly weapon.
Two people were arrested on drug charges on Tuesday following an undercover investigation in Randolph County.
Around midnight on May Dana Seetahal a prominent attorney and former senator in Trinidad and Tobago had just left a casino in the capital of Port of Spain when her vehicle was stopped by another car blocking the road. A van pulled up alongside and let loose a burst of gunfire killing her in a wellorchestrated hit.
Her murder was one of approximately that have occurred in the Caribbean nation so far this year putting it on course for one of the highest murder rates in the world. The country saw only murders in . Last year there were .
VICE News visited the slums of Port of Spain and spoke with police activists community leaders and gangsters to understand the countrys decadeplus spike in killings. Many of the murders are attributed to ruthless and politically connected street gangs who control territories that are sometimes no larger than a city block. The gangs fight over lucrative government contracts meant to provide social services and combat unemployment.
But gang violence is merely a symptom of a bigger problem. Trinidad has become an important stop for drugs headed to West Africa and the United States. Many observers point to the big fish the nameless political and business elites who are behind drug trafficking and the culture of endemic corruption and murder that come with it. They are accused of turning a country rich in oil and gas deposits into their own personal narcostate fostering impunity through a web of bribes and murders. Unlike the profits from the energy industry however this phenomenon trickles all the way down to the street level.
port of spain trinidad and tobago murder cocaine drug trafficking corruption abu bakr trinidad vice vice news shortform docs 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics ABS have released their report Recorded Crime Offenders outlining the nature of criminal offences in .
Queensland AttorneyGeneral Paul Lucas has announced that the State Government is set to change the Criminal Code to remove doubts about how and when.
Queensland Deputy Premier and AttorneyGeneral Paul Lucas have announced that new laws targeting murderous exlovers graveyard vandals and unfair landlords.
Weve all probably uttered the words to the effect of wanting to kill someone but of course we dont actually mean wed like to kill that person. However.
Its perhaps somewhat surprising when you think about how much of the law filters through via popular media and is particularly noticeable when it comes.
Can being intoxicated or drunk be used as a defence for criminal matters Find out here. 
Hi there We want to make this site as good as it can for you the user. Please tell us what you would like to do differently and we will do our best to accommodate
NCDOT traffic cameras captured a NC Highway Patrol police chase that started Tuesday morning in Johnston County and ended in northeast Raleigh.
Rolanda Byrd said there would be no doubt about what happened in the moments before her son was shot and killed by a Raleigh police officer if the officer had been wearing a body camera. 
A man wanted for robbery and assaulting a police officer was arrested Tuesday after leading Johnston County deputies and North Carolina state troopers on a vehicle chase through Johnston and Wake counties.
One person died in a Wake County wreck late Monday night in the block of Zebulon Road.
Illegal fireworks sparked a fire and caused about in damages Monday to the roof of a downtown building.
A man charged in the death of a Charlotte college counselor has been extradited to North Carolina after being arrested in Nevada.
Another inmate at a North Carolina prison has stepped forward to say he was beaten while handcuffed.
The mother of a teen who died in a car crash is suing her exhusband for allowing the girl to drive.
Raleigh police Thursday charged a Clayton man with four counts of statutory rape involving a yearold girl in April May and June.
Police found a man shot to death Thursday night at the citys Weaver Street Park housing project on East Cornwallis Road they reported.
Bullets flew in a downtown Raleigh street early one Saturday morning in May when a man used his car to chase two robbers who had held up him and other customers waiting for a store to open early one Saturday morning police have disclosed.
The FBI says a Milwaukee woman added to its Most Wanted Fugitives list this week has been arrested in North Carolina.
Authorities in Salisbury have arrested a city police officer and accused him of stealing firearms from a family member.
The Independence Police Department in Missouri released surveillance video showing a Wendys employee assaulted by customers and climbing out of a window.
Passengers can be seen diving for cover when gunfire struck a RideKC bus in Kansas City Tuesday night. Cameras on the bus caught the passengers reactions as well as what appears to be glass falling from the bus.
Court documents show that a woman moved from Thailand to the Triangle last year and paid more than to the owners of a popular North Raleigh restaurant to become majority owner. But she got no documentation for the business agreement and her passport was taken away.
Until Wednesday yearold Ronald Williams of Raleigh had court dates on Friday and next week on a string of mostly minor charges but he got a new appointment for Thursday after Raleigh police charged him with trafficking in cocaine and heroin and other drug offenses.
A yearold Raleigh man accused two weeks ago of spending on other peoples credit card accounts now faces charges of shopping at stores in Cary and Garner with bogus credit cards to the tune of .
Colleen Janssen the Wake County prosecutor whose father was kidnapped by a gang leader she prosecuted has been put on paid leave while the district attorney looks into her misconduct on two unrelated cases.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
Medina man haunted by childhood tragedy shares his experience in hopes of saving someone elses life
For Sunday Don opens up from the shadows of his past and talks about being bullied in when he was yearsold. Photo taken on Wednesday Nov. in Medina Ohio with the agreement that we would not use his last name or reveal his identity. Ed Suba Jr.Akron Beacon Journal
For Sunday Don opens up from the shadows of his past and talks about being bullied in when he was yearsold. Photo taken on Wednesday Nov. in Medina Ohio with the agreement that we would not use his last name or reveal his identity. Ed Suba Jr.Akron Beacon Journal
It happened a couple of minutes at a time a chain of events that ended with a mother and daughter nearly drowning at the bottom of Summit Lake on the Fourth of July.
Crime and criminal justice news from across England Scotland Wales and Northern Ireland. Updated throughout the day every day.
Officers attended and the man aged was taken to a south London hospital.
Arvydas Filipavicius .. a Lithuanian national of Station Parade Dagenham carried out three robberies and an attempted robbery in the space of a week threatening staff with a BB gun to steal cash.
Eight men have been jailed today Wednesday May for a total of years for defrauding elderly people out of approximately million.The Old Bailey previously heard that the group was involved in what was described as an industrialscale conspiracy.
On Wednesday May Frederic Andre Russell pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to manslaughter due to diminished responsibility.He was sentenced to a hospital order under section of the Mental Health Act and also given a restriction order under.
Officers attended and the yearold man was taken by London Ambulance Service to a south London hospital where he.
Gary Cawthorne of Greenhithe Kent pleaded guilty to two counts of sexual assault on a child under years of age one count of grooming and one count of a breach of a Sexual Offences Prevention Order SOPO at Southwark Crown Court on Tuesday .
Officers from Barnet are renewing appeals to trace two men following a robbery. 
The victim was taken to hospital where his condition is described as serious but stable.
Two teenagers were jailed on Friday April for a series of mopedenabled robberies and robberies to take mopeds in Forest Gate and Stratford over a twoweek period in October and November . 
Plain clothed officers have witnessed men encouraging members of the public to participate in playing cup and ball which entices the public to gamble with no chance of winning. 
Tony Henry of Dagenhem Avenue Dagenham was found guilty of attempted murder following a trial at Snaresbrook Crown Court. He was sentenced on Friday April to years imprisonment with a fiveyear extended licence. 
A man who sent approximately tweets campaigning for Daesh has been jailed for five years.Mohammed Moshin Ameen of Dagenham was sentenced to five years imprisonment for one count of supporting a proscribed organisation and four years.
Police are reiterating appeals for the publics help to find a missing teenage boy from Lewisham.
A husband and wife have been charged with fundraising offences under the Terrorism Act.Mohammed Iqbal Golamaully and Nazimabee Golamaully from South London are jointly charged with one count of fundraising on or before August contrary to Section of the Terrorism Act .
Maxine Benson .. of no fixed address was found guilty of the murder of yearold Alfie Stone at the Old Bailey on Tuesday April.On Monday November Alfie along with his brother and two female friends attended an address in High Road Ickenham.
A man has been convicted of seven sexual assaults following a series of attacks in the space of ten days targeting women in Clapham and Brixton Hill.Mehdi Midani of no fixed address was found guilty of six counts on Tuesday April and admitted.
Two men age and were taken to a west London hospital for treatment to gunshot injuries.
Fitzroy Masters of Kimberley Road N was found guilty following a fiveweek trial at Croydon Crown Court of one count of kidnap one count of grievous bodily harm GBH with intent and possession of a firearm with intent to cause fear of violence.
Jemal Williams of Berkeley Gardens N was convicted of killing yearold Shaquan SammyPlummer after refusing to let him attend a party at his house.Williams chased him down the street and stabbed him in the chest before fleeing the scene.
Kamil Czarnomski a Polish national of no fixed address pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey on Monday April to the murder of yearold Pawel Chwalinski.Pawels body was found on the evening of November in an underpass below the.
Detectives from the Mets Sexual Offences Exploitation and Child Abuse Command are appealing for information after a girl was raped in Haringey.The victim who is in her midteens was attacked at around pm on Saturday March near the playground and exercise equipment in Ducketts Common Park N.
Pedro Antonio Baptista Boieiro a Portuguese national of Brigstock Road Thornton Heath has been charged with two counts of attempted rape and one count of rape.The first two counts relate to offences on December in Challice Way Streatham SW and on December in.
The Borough Commander of Richmond and Twickenham has been served with a notice of investigation and suspended from duty today Friday April following the receipt of allegations of inappropriate behaviour.The allegations were first reported to the Directorate of Professional Standards DPS on Wednesday April. The allegations are being investigated.
Following an investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission IPCC and a misconduct hearing lasting five days a panel made up of an independent representative a superintendent and chaired by Commander Julian Bennett have found that the case against a detective constable responsible for investigating an allegation of assault on .
This website follows the press complaints code of practice. Should you be dissatisfied with any content in regards to inaccuracy or intrusion then please contact the editor or contact the PCC directly.
Police are looking for three people after restaurant employees were assaulted robbed Tuesday night.
GREENSBORO A woman was robbed at gunpoint Tuesday night on West Friendly Avenue.
GREENSBORO Police arrested a yearold Greensboro man today in connection with a Fourth of July assault and attempted robbery.
GREENSBORO Police arrested a Greensboro man today in a triplestabbing that left two men seriously injured.
Prosecutors saidJhustyn Mitchell isa highranking validated gang member who is charged in fatal shooting of Jay Jay Tremaine Allen who they called collateral damage.
The victim was approached by a man in a white sedan and was cut then the suspect drove off police said.
A woman was injured in WinstonSalem Monday night when two other people shot at each other police said.
Police are searching for the person who stabbed two women Monday afternoon killing one of them.
GREENSBORO Police today are investigating a double stabbing that left one victim in critical condition.
GRAHAM Donald Bradsher and George Smith III agree Smith wrecked his car at a South Carolina racetrack in March but who was responsible and who will pay is now the subject of a lawsuit and counterclaim.
The male suspect drove up to the victim got out of his vehicle and as the victim ran the suspect shot him in the left leg according to a Greensboro police news release.
WINSTONSALEM Police are looking for a man who robbed a tobacco store Saturday morning.
The bad news is that assaults involving firearms in Greensboro have spiked percent since last year.
GREENSBORO A magistrate set bail at million for a Greensboro woman accused of using forged prescriptions to buy opiates.
KERNERSVILLE Officers responding to reports of a shooting found a male victim with a gunshot wound to a leg according to a police news release.
ASHEBORO Police have charged a Ramseur woman in connection with the death of Gary Jarmaine Jackson III.
WINSTONSALEM A robber shot the manager of a WinstonSalem restaurant late Friday evening.
GREENSBORO Police are investigating this mornings homeinvasion robbery in Greensboro.
The murder trial of Randy Steven Cagle focused on his mental state Thursday during presentation of evidence by the defense.
Police charged an Asheboro man with Wednesdays knifepoint robbery of a Burlington store.
Implementing a plan nearly a year in the making on Saturday the Burlington Police Department will have its officers begin permanent shifts.
MOUNT AIRY There is no indication that a Laotian woman was a victim of a hate crime when she was fatally shot in her rice garden in North Carolina an authority said Thursday.
GREENSBORO Highway contractors will begin a sixmonth effort to replace the bridge that carries Coble Church Road over North Prong Stinking Quarter Creek near Pleasant Garden.
WINSTONSALEM N.C. Department of Transportation crews will close Crescent Road at Anthony Road north of Rockwell.
GREENSBORO Police arrested two men today in Thursdays armed robbery in Greensboro.
A magistrate set bail at million for a yearold man accused of setting fire to an occupied apartment building in June.
Beginning Friday all Davidson County employees will be able to take advantage of the countys latest health benefit a smartphone app that allows patients to make virtual doctors visits from any location.
HIGH POINT Police are looking for two men who they say were involved in four recent shootings.
A man was robbed at gunpoint early this morning when three people broke into his house.
A WinstonSalem woman convicted Thursday of faking a bomb threat at a downtown church told authorities that an Arab man delivered a suspicious package and threatened her with a knife.
Police are searching for two men who robbed two other people at gunpoint Thursday night.
GREENSBORO Police are warning Greensboro residents about a traveling group of thieves who scam their way into elderly residents homes and burglarize them according to a police news release.
SUMMERFIELD Emergency personnel responded this afternoon to a vehicle fire involving injuries at Branson Road in Summerfield according to dispatchers.
TRINITY Law enforcement agencies seized nine firearms when they raided a suspected methamphetamine lab in Trinity Wednesday.
WINSTONSALEM Officers responding to reports of marijuana growing found five plants valued at in a mans backyard Wednesday according to a police news release.
A High Point man accused of shooting at another man earlier this month was arrested Wednesday and charged with assault with a deadly weapon.
Two people were arrested on drug charges on Tuesday following an undercover investigation in Randolph County.
Your free trial has expired. Please register for a regular account.
partly from Middle English murther from Old English morthor partly from Middle English murdre from AngloFrench of Germanic origin akin to Old English morthor akin to Old High German mord murder Latin mort mors death mori to die mortuus dead Greek brotos mortal
actionable alienable carceral chattel complicity decedent larceny malfeasance modus operandi 
partly from Old English morthor partly from Old French murdre of Germanic origin
What made you want to look up murder Please tell us where you read or heard it including the quote if possible.
Test your knowledge of words related to the season of longer days and vacations.
We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. Thats why we use cookies to enhance your experience. By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies.
Have you got a local story picture or video you would like to send to us Send it to us now for a chance to get published.
This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisations Editors Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion then please contact the editor here. If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
Once youve logged in look for the icon throughout your favorite Alltop topics. Click it to add that site to your personal MyAlltop page.
Check your inbox for your activation email. Once youve confirmed your email address youll be able to start adding feeds and sharing your custom url.
The owner of this website www.truecrimereport.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebcbafeua.
Police have confirmed that a postmortem examination conducted on the body of Sean Lewis on Tuesday revealed that he died from brain damage secondary to 
Police are searching for the person or persons responsible for setting ablaze apatrol van in the compound of the Anse La Raye Police Station on Saturday 
Saint LuciasCrime Chief Milton Desir confirmed with St. Lucia News Online SNO on Tuesday thatSean Lewis alias Gun Play was pronounced 
A senior police officer who was recently arrested has been officially charged with rape. The officer was charged over the weekend Crime Chief Milton Desir 
The Police Welfare Association PWA is happy with the appointment of former Deputy Police Chief Hermangild Francis as the new National Security Minister. 
A man who was shot on Sunday has been identified as Sean Lewis alias Gun Play. Reports are that two vehicles opened fire on Lewis car while he was 
A male was rushed to hospital following a shooting incident in Bois dOrange Gros Iset this afternoon. The victim was shot in his vehicleonTrouya 
Authorities are investigating the suspected drowning of a yearold male near Rat Island. Reports are that the teenager identified as Darran James from La 
For the fourth yearSaint Lucia remains on the United States governments Tier Watch List on human trafficking while several other Caribbean 
A police officer has been accused of rape andcould becharged shortly. Reports are that the officer allegedly raped a woman in theSouth on June . 
TheIMPACS report is now on the desk of National Security Minister Hermangild Francis. Francis had told St Lucia News Online SNOthat once he receive the 
A St. Lucian national is among Caribbean nationals on Interpolthe largest international police organisations Wanted Persons List News Americas 
A woman who was attacked and chopped along with a male companion early yesterday morning has been released from hospital. The woman believed to be in her late 
Saint Lucias Closed Circuit Television CCTV system has had its fair share of trouble over the past couple of years butNational Security Minister 
A man and woman were attacked by a masked man around a.m. Sunday in Laborie sustaining majorchop wounds to their bodies. Reports are that the attacker 
A man is being hailed a good samaritan after helping to foil an attack by a mob of teenagers on a y.o. boy earlier today. The boy was reportedly buying ice 
PRESS RELEASE Weekend Crime Prevention Tips is a production of the Press Office of the Royal St Lucia Police Force. Crime prevention means being 
The Royal St Lucia Police Force RSLPF has been faced with a number of issues over the past couple of years ranging from the lack of resources to members 
PRESS RELEASE On Wednesday May Nina Tricia Mahana Duncan of La Clery Castries a former employee of the Eastern Caribbean Financial Holding 
In efforts to foster a better working relationship with the government of the United States US the new government plans to resolve the CARICOM 
PRESS RELEASE On Monday June Charles Cervin Charles aka Cervin Griffith of La Toc Castries was formally arrested and charged with the 
Government may be looking to make theForensic Lab a regional organisation that will servecountries in the EasternCaribbean given the enormouscost to 
CAUSING PERSON TO REFRAIN FROM GIVING EVIDENCE AT CRIMINAL TRIAL A person who with intent to defeat obstruct or pervert the course of justice at the trial 
A local bar located at La Feuille GrosIslet was robbed on Monday evening by one armed bandit. Police officials haveconfirmed that the incident took place 
Almost one month after accusing Ezechiel Joseph the new Minister of Agriculture of sexual assault former parliamentarian Jeanine ComptonAntoine maintains 
GIS A nesting hawksbill turtle was found slaughtered last week. Violators can be fined up to for each offence. The Saint Lucia National Trust is 
PRESS RELEASE The Saint Lucia Association of Social Workers in collaboration with The University of the West Indies Open Campus Saint Lucia cordially 
A person who in Saint Lucia a kills or attempts to kill the Governor General or any person performing the functions of the Governor General under the 
The owner of a Nissan Bluebird is breathing a sigh of relief today after the vehicle was recovered after having been stolen just over hours before. The 
PRESS RELEASE The Royal Saint Lucia Police Force would like to thank all Police Officers for their dedication and commitment during the General 
Twovehicles were reportedly damaged and people injured in Grande Ravine Dennery North on Tuesday evening by residents in the area. A woman who identified 
With just a few hours left before Saint Lucians head to the polls to elect a new government local police are now investigating a threat made against Prime 
PRESS RELEASE The Royal Saint Lucia Police Force would like to remind the general public that no intoxicating liquor should be sold or supplied on 
PRESS RELEASE It is the solemn duty of the Royal Saint Lucia Police Force to bid a final farewell to Woman Police Constable Cymantha Mitchel who 
PRESS RELEASE A donation of computers to the Vieux Fort Branch of the Special Services Unit SSU is expected to significantly impact the work of the 
Commissioner of PoliceSeverin Moncherry has issued a statement in light of the upcoming general election urging peace during this period. Below is his 
Saint Lucia has been excluded again from a list of countries due to participate in this years multinational Tradewinds military exercise 
With less than one week before the next general election Independent candidate for Micoud NorthJeannine ComptonAntoine has come out to accuse former 
During the hours that the poll is open upon polling day a person shall not upon any public road or in any public place within yards of any building in 
Police are investigating a homicide in Monchy GrosIslet where a yearold man was brutally chopped resulting in his untimely demise onThursday 
Police are investigating a suspected suicide in Morne Ciseaux near Jacmel after a mans body was discovered hanging from a tree. St. Lucia News Online 
The Royal St. Lucia Police Force RSLPF has extended condolences to family and friends of Cymatha Mitchel a female police officer from La Fargue Choiseul 
PRESS RELEASE An employer shall on polling day allow every elector in his or her employ a reasonable period being not less than hours or 
A man in his early s was stabbed while in a bus heading to Micoud North for the Saint Lucia Labour Party SLP political rally held on Sunday. 
PRESS RELEASE Know Your Laws is a production of the Press Office of the Royal Saint Lucia Police Force. ELECTION OFFENCES INTOXICATING LIQUOR NOT 
PRESS RELEASE The Choiseul Police is seeking the assistance of the Media and by extension the public in identifying this individual who is presently in 
The guest for Police Insight this Sunday will be none other than Mr Gaspard Jn. Baptiste the Chief Electoral Officer. Tune in on MBC Television 
ISSUE OF WRITS For the purposes of every general election of members of the House and for the purposes of the election of members to fill vacancies in the 
The Caribbean Public Health Agency CARPHA has been contacted to conduct air quality tests while theDepartment of Environmental Health was called in to 
PRESS RELEASE On Tuesday May a post mortem examination was conducted on the body of year old Anthony Octave of Massade GrosIslet. The 
PRESS RELEASE On Wednesday May a post mortem examination was conducted on the body of year old Gregor Steven also known as Boyo of 
PRESS RELEASE Exactly days ago today I stood at this very location tolaunch a new organization called Speak Out St. Lucia. It wasbecause of the 
PRESS RELEASE On Tuesday May a post mortem examination was conducted on the body of year old Dwight Amos Mc Farlane of Christoph Rowe 
Authorities are searching for a man who abandoned his yearold son on the Marisule beach on Sunday. Police have been unable to locate the man since the boy 
The recent execution of a yearold male on Chaussee Road Castries indicates that a few people seem hellbent on continuing the perpetration of violence in 
PRESS RELEASE Police are investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of year old Anthony Octave of Massade GrosIslet. According to 
PRESS RELEASE Police are investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of year old Dwight Amos Mc Farlane of Christoph Rowe near Garvey 
PRESS RELEASE Police are investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of year old Gregor Steven also known as Boyo of Wiltons 
A concerned parent has written St. Lucia News Online SNO to warn other parents who have children going to primary schools from Vide Bouitelle to the 
Police have arrested a young male for questioning in relation to a fatal shooting in Vieux Fort on Sunday evening. The victim in that shooting has been 
A teen boy who was reportedlyshot multiple times on Chaussee Road Castries early Monday morning has succumbed to his injuries. Gregory Stephensalso known 
Police are investigating a burglary at the La Croix Maingot Combined School where masked bandits forced their way into the school leaving with several pieces 
PRESS RELEASE A US. million fund supported civil society organisations working across eight Caribbean countries to 
CARIBBEAN The absence of microcephaly in several countries impacted by the Zika virus raises serious questions about the 
PM Allen Chastanet believes that CARICOM is not doing enough and a change is needed in how CARICOM goes about its 
DEMERARA WAVES The Ministry of Social Protection will be putting measures in place to ensure Guyanese who live in other 
PRESS RELEASE Milton Haughton the Executive Director of the Caribbean Regional Fisheries Mechanism CRFM met today at the 
BBC South African Olympic athlete Oscar Pistorius has been sentenced to six years in prison for the murder of his 
CNN Some of the families of British service personnel who lost their lives in the Iraq War say they feel their loved ones 
DEMERARA WAVES Almost years after Cyon Picture Boy Collier gunned down two brothers at Victoria East Coast Demerara 
NY TIMES The F.B.I. director James B. Comey said Tuesday that the bureau would not recommend criminal charges against Hillary 
PRESS RELEASE The Commonwealth will offer strength stability solidarity and practical assistance to its member states and in 
NEW YORK POST A Georgia mom avoided jail time after she allegedly had sex with a teenager at a booze and drugfueled party 
CARIBBEAN An update in predictions for the Atlantic hurricane season point to an increase in the number of expected 
INDEPENDENT UK Between and around children under the age of got marriedinthe state of Virginia. Of 
PRESS RELEASE The Eastern Caribbean Central Bank ECCB advises that effective July cheques that are not compliant with 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS A homemade explosive left in Central Park for more than hours blew off the foot of a college 
BBC More than people have been killed in flooding along the Yangtze River in China following torrential rain officials 
BUSINESS INSIDER In recent months newspapers around the country have published stories that sound like they could have been 
BBC At least people have been killed and about injured in an explosion claimed by the socalled Islamic State group in 
BBC At least people have been killed and about injured in an explosion claimed by the Islamic State group in Baghdad 
BBC New Zealand police say they have made their biggest ever seizure of cocaine hidden inside a novel kind of drug mule.
JAMAICA OBSERVER Former Trinidad and Tobago Prime Minister Patrick Manning died early Saturday after being diagnosed with blood 
INEWS GUYANA Less than an hour ago police reportedly arrested a man who allegedly chopped his yearold son Samuel to death 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS A yearold Minnesota woman was charged Thursday as an accomplice in the murder and beheading of a man 
CARIBBEAN The man who entered the Guyana Bank for Trade and Industry earlier this week and threatened to blow up the 
The owner of this website newsinfo.inquirer.net has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebbaacdfua.
A drunken sailor and his crew had to be rescued from their ship when the skipper crashed into a sand bank.
A woman suffered stab wounds to the stomach when she was robbed in a Bispham street.
A man was left scarred for life after a grieving friend turned on him and attacked him with a table leg.
A man has made his first appearance at court charged with causing the death of a yearold former Lytham cafe owner.
A man chased his wife around their home physically abusing her after they argued about money.
A jealous and obsessive woman paralysed her loverival with a stun gun before stabbing and slashing her victim with demonic savagery a murder trial heard..
A care home slammed by regulators as inadequate failed residents in a number of key areas according to a damning report.
A dead puppy has been found tied up and dumped inside a a boarded up kennel according to RSPCA inspectors
A man was left with lifelong scars after a grieving friend turned on him and attacked him with a table leg.
A driver who was run over by his own truck has undergone surgery after suffering lifethreatening injuries say police.
A burglar tried to make a great escape on a motorbike when he was caught carrying out a breakin at a Blackpool skip hire complex.
Police are hunting a man who punched another man in the head in a cashpoint robbery.
A teenage convicted sex offender from Blackpool who went missing from his bail hostel has been recaptured.
A burglar stole more than of property and caused of damage when he broke into a Blackpool watersports club.
A man suffered a broken nose after he was kicked in the head at The Old Pool Festival.
Teenagers have been warned they are risking arrest and their lives playing inside an abandoned pub.
A drunk got into his Bentley to drive home from the pub rather than walk just yards.
A superbike rider seen driving erratically told a police officer who stopped him sorry mate Im rushing to get home a court was told.
Lancashire Care NHS Foundation Trust is on the lookout for registered general nurses and registered mental health nurses to work in prisons across the county.
Firefighters are still at the scene of a large blaze at a former theme park pub which may have been an arson attack.
Registering with Blackpool Gazette means youre ok with our terms and conditions.
Alternatively you can create a new account with another email address.
Enter your postcode so we can keep you uptodate with the latest local news and exciting deals.
Alternatively you can create a new account with another email address.
LAKE LANIER The Alpharetta Department of Public Safety has confirmed that one of their officers has been charged after being involved in a weekend boating .
BUFORD A Buford woman was indicted and charged last week in the shooting death of her husband a case previously considered to be a .
SOUTH FORSYTH A man led deputies on a foot chase Tuesday that ended in his capture about two hours later authorities said.
A former Gainesville Scoutmaster and members of First Baptist Church named in a March civil lawsuit have filed responses claiming the statute of limitations has .
DAWSON COUNTY The Dawson County Sheriffs Office officials named in a federal lawsuit in May by a Roswell citizen journalist have responded claiming her .
A weekend Hall County police chase ended with a suspect killed by Georgia State Patrol as he tried to drown a trooper authorities said.
NORTH FORSYTH A Buford man has been indicted by a Forsyth County Grand Jury on charges stemming from a car crash that seriously injured a .
GAINESVILLE A suspect was shot and killed after a confrontation with Georgia State Patrol troopers Saturday night in Gainesville that resulted in injuries to three .
SOUTH FORSYTH An Alpharetta man is in custody at an area hospital for driving under the influence of drugs Monday afternoon when he wrecked into .
SOUTH FORSYTH A south Forsyth man suspected of assaulting three women on separate occasions in an attempt to grope them has been arrested authorities said.
A Buford churchs sign which read in part Satan made gays and transgender was covered in black paint between Sunday night and Monday morning .
CUMMING A man wanted on charges of shooting two people at a residence in Cumming last month before fleeing the area has been caught in .
CUMMING A Cumming man accused of stealing more than over a month period from a local business has been indicted by a Forsyth .
A man suspected of shooting two people at a residence last month has been indicted on separate domestic violence charges.
A home invasion suspect climbed a fence with a handgun in Buford May and tried to force his way into the home police said.
A Gwinnett County Police officer broke a window Tuesday to rescue a puppy from a car in the Mall of Georgia parking lot according to .
A Gainesville man is accused of picking up a yearold girl in his vehicle and sexually assaulting her six months ago according to authorities.
DAWSON COUNTY Warrants were issued last week for two Dawson County mothers accused of violating the states school truancy law.
FLOWERY BRANCH A man has been charged with arson and aggravated battery in a Memorial Day fire that injured a yearold woman.
FORSYTH COUNTY For the second time in just as many weeks a teenagers life was saved when local emergency personnel used an antioverdose drug .
NORTHEAST FORSYTH A Kennesaw man is facing more than a dozen charges including possession of a large amount of methamphetamine after he led a highspeed .
CUMMING Atlanta Crime Stoppers is offering a reward of up to for information that leads to the arrest of a man suspected of .
The woman found dead Saturday in Lake Lanier has been identified as Lizeth Ruby Ruiz who went missing May at Lanier Point Park.
CUMMING A man suspected of shooting two people at a residence in Cumming early Monday morning is being sought by local law enforcement.
A body was found in Lake Lanier just off shore at Lanier Point Park on Saturday afternoon according to Gainesville police spokesman Sgt. Kevin Holbrook.
Authorities say they have exhausted their ground and water search at Lanier Point Park for Lizeth Ruby Ruiz a Gainesville woman who has been missing .
Two Gainesville men are accused of possessing child pornography according to authorities.
The search has resumed for a Gainesville woman who has been missing since Wednesday night.
GAINESVILLE A Suwanee man suffered severe injuries to his feet one of which was a complete amputation after a boating incident Saturday on Lake Lanier .
Contents of this site are Copyright Forsyth News Cumming GA. All rights reserved. Privacy policy and Terms of service
A man was found dead in Little Village across the street from Paderewski Elementary School. 
A yearold and a yearold were wounded in separate shootings police said. 
Security cameras at Mash turned up a photo of the alleged Dry Cleaning Bill bandit. 
When relatives commit crimeswe run into the house and lock the door says local funeral director. 
She was one of two people shot in Back of the Yards since Tuesday police said. 
When police arrested Joshua Anderson they found worth of PCP in his pocket court records show. 
Seven people some responsible for shootings are still wanted after the bust police said. 
Anybody who contacts himwill face additional charges a judgesaid. Do I make myself clear 
The man tried to stop a shoplifter at a retail store in Auburn Gresham when he was shot police said. 
Four burglaries have taken place this month in Back of the Yards police said. 
A City Council committee plans to talk about ways to revamp police accountability. 
URBANA Calling him dangerous a Champaign County judge Thursday sentenced a man to years in prison for the daylight murder of another man last spring.
David Beverly declined to say anything to Judge Tom Difanis prior to the veteran jurist imposing sentence for the April shooting death of Arsenio Carter.
Beverlys attorney Dan Jackson of Champaign made no sentencing recommendation. Assistant States Attorney Troy Lozar had sought the years just years shy of the maximum Beverly could have received.
We have a community subjected to a lot of violence that does not trust the police and criticizes the person who testified. Thats an incredibly sad commentary on our society Difanis said.
On the other hand Difanis said sending Beverly to prison for the rest of his life is also a total waste.
Normally firstdegree murder carries a range of to years in prison but the Legislature has mandated that if the killer is the one who fired the gun an extra years shall be added to the sentence.
The conviction is the th Beverly has racked up as an adult in three states. As a juvenile he was found guilty of robbery and armed robbery in Cook County in .
What we have here is a microcosm of what is going on in our community the last couple years. This was indescribable violence inflicted by one young man against another young man Difanis said.
Lozar said Mr. Carter of Champaign was a victim of a brazen and premeditated attack.
He was shot in the heart as he sat next to his girlfriend in her sport utility vehicle at the Oakwood Trace apartments near Third Street and Beardsley Avenue about p.m. that day. The couple had planned to attend a barbecue there.
She immediately drove him the few blocks to Presence Covenant Medical Center in Urbana where he died about minutes later.
That woman Dreshana Caston of Champaign was the only person willing to cooperate with Champaign police despite there being many eyewitnesses.
Difanis lauded the Champaign police for not giving up in their efforts to find the killer and praised Caston for doing the right thing.
He read aloud from her victim impact statement in which she wrote that people dislike me because I testified which was the right thing to do if you loved and cared for someone so I have to watch the places I go and whom I am around.
Castons testimony at Beverlys January trial was critical to his conviction since there was little physical evidence linking him to the shooting. When he was arrested police found surgical gloves in his pocket. Caston had testified the shooter wore plastic gloves.
Mr. Carter not only never saw it coming he never had a chance Lozar said.
Noting Beverlys callous disregard to families who were nearby in the apartment complex Difianis called Mr. Carters murder a tragedy all around for the victim and this man referring to Beverly.
NewsGazette.com embraces discussion of both community and world issues. We welcome you to contribute your ideas opinions and comments but we ask that you avoid personal attacks vulgarity and hate speech. We reserve the right to remove any comment at our discretion and we will block repeat offenders accounts. To post comments you must first be a registered user and your username will appear with any comment you post. Happy posting.
Seems excessive. A group of people should probably protest this. I mean really it is only his th conviction in years.
This is what happens when one person has the courage to stand up and make a difference. One person stood up to this man. All those others said its okay to have blood in our streets.
I admire and appreciate Ms. Castons willingness to testify. She chose the unpopular and difficult yet morally correct choice.
Hopefully her actions will set a precedent that encourages future cooperation by witnesses in order to remove dangerous people from our community.
We have a community subjected to a lot of violence that does not trust the police and criticizes the person who testified. Thats an incredibly sad commentary on our society Difanis said.
The part about .and criticizes the person who testified is very telling. I know this wasnt happening in the comments section of this newspaper so it must have been on Facebook etc.
Those that were criticizing her should be outed as they are part of the problem. My guess is that a lot of those people are the same cowards who wouldnt come forward as witnesses.
Let us be honest. The lack of witnesses is not restricted to CU or the Black community. Do you think that the same thing does not happen in the Italian community in New York or the Hispanic community in Tuscon or the Irish community in Boston It is not about antipolice views. It is about protection.
If you saw a murder first hand by yourself would you be a witness knowing that your identity would be known by the public Would you do it knowing that there would be no or short term protection for you and your family I commend those who do testify.
Another in an endless string of sad and senseless tragedies. One young man is dead and the other ones life is all but over. The victims girlfriend deserves the highest of praise for her courage. The cowards who are making her have to watch the places I go and whom I am around are the problem. Without her testimony this monster may have gone free.
Interesting. I wonder what this guy thought about the Native American stereotype the University used to trot out at football and basketball games.
Interesting. I wonder what would possibly make you think that this is an appropriate place to bring up the Chief. Red herring much
Start a subscription now to enjoy our awardwinning local news and sports coverage. Print digital or both weve got you covered.
Foggy early becoming sunny this afternoon. High F. Winds WNW at to mph..
Partly cloudy this evening then becoming cloudy after midnight. Low F. Winds WNW at to mph.
Provides a daily feed of arrests by city for citizens to view arrests in their area.
We partner with agencies across California to bring you unlimited access to arrest information from all California agencies.
We are here to help answer your questions. Feel free to give us a call or send us a message.
LAKE LANIER The Alpharetta Department of Public Safety has confirmed that one of their officers has been charged after being involved in a weekend boating .
BUFORD A Buford woman was indicted and charged last week in the shooting death of her husband a case previously considered to be a .
SOUTH FORSYTH A man led deputies on a foot chase Tuesday that ended in his capture about two hours later authorities said.
A former Gainesville Scoutmaster and members of First Baptist Church named in a March civil lawsuit have filed responses claiming the statute of limitations has .
DAWSON COUNTY The Dawson County Sheriffs Office officials named in a federal lawsuit in May by a Roswell citizen journalist have responded claiming her .
A weekend Hall County police chase ended with a suspect killed by Georgia State Patrol as he tried to drown a trooper authorities said.
NORTH FORSYTH A Buford man has been indicted by a Forsyth County Grand Jury on charges stemming from a car crash that seriously injured a .
GAINESVILLE A suspect was shot and killed after a confrontation with Georgia State Patrol troopers Saturday night in Gainesville that resulted in injuries to three .
SOUTH FORSYTH An Alpharetta man is in custody at an area hospital for driving under the influence of drugs Monday afternoon when he wrecked into .
SOUTH FORSYTH A south Forsyth man suspected of assaulting three women on separate occasions in an attempt to grope them has been arrested authorities said.
A Buford churchs sign which read in part Satan made gays and transgender was covered in black paint between Sunday night and Monday morning .
CUMMING A man wanted on charges of shooting two people at a residence in Cumming last month before fleeing the area has been caught in .
CUMMING A Cumming man accused of stealing more than over a month period from a local business has been indicted by a Forsyth .
A man suspected of shooting two people at a residence last month has been indicted on separate domestic violence charges.
A home invasion suspect climbed a fence with a handgun in Buford May and tried to force his way into the home police said.
A Gwinnett County Police officer broke a window Tuesday to rescue a puppy from a car in the Mall of Georgia parking lot according to .
A Gainesville man is accused of picking up a yearold girl in his vehicle and sexually assaulting her six months ago according to authorities.
DAWSON COUNTY Warrants were issued last week for two Dawson County mothers accused of violating the states school truancy law.
FLOWERY BRANCH A man has been charged with arson and aggravated battery in a Memorial Day fire that injured a yearold woman.
FORSYTH COUNTY For the second time in just as many weeks a teenagers life was saved when local emergency personnel used an antioverdose drug .
NORTHEAST FORSYTH A Kennesaw man is facing more than a dozen charges including possession of a large amount of methamphetamine after he led a highspeed .
CUMMING Atlanta Crime Stoppers is offering a reward of up to for information that leads to the arrest of a man suspected of .
The woman found dead Saturday in Lake Lanier has been identified as Lizeth Ruby Ruiz who went missing May at Lanier Point Park.
CUMMING A man suspected of shooting two people at a residence in Cumming early Monday morning is being sought by local law enforcement.
A body was found in Lake Lanier just off shore at Lanier Point Park on Saturday afternoon according to Gainesville police spokesman Sgt. Kevin Holbrook.
Authorities say they have exhausted their ground and water search at Lanier Point Park for Lizeth Ruby Ruiz a Gainesville woman who has been missing .
Two Gainesville men are accused of possessing child pornography according to authorities.
The search has resumed for a Gainesville woman who has been missing since Wednesday night.
GAINESVILLE A Suwanee man suffered severe injuries to his feet one of which was a complete amputation after a boating incident Saturday on Lake Lanier .
Contents of this site are Copyright Forsyth News Cumming GA. All rights reserved. Privacy policy and Terms of service
A Wichita man convicted of taking part in two gas station robberies in December was sentenced Tuesday to more than years in federal prison Acting U.S. Attorney Tom Beall said in a news release. His partner in crime pleaded guilty.
Wichita State University anthropologist and CSI expert Peer MooreJansen has helped police and prosecutors in hundreds of crime cases. In this video he shows how a person was shot through a vertebrae. Video by Fernando Salazar
Kansas cannot cut off Medicaid funding for two Planned Parenthood affiliates a federal judge said Tuesday. 
Danny R. Ely was found dead from a gunshot wound after authorities responded to a report of a suspicious death on Dec. . David Michael Younger was arrested by the Kingman County Sheriffs Office that same day.
From June through June cases of stolen license plates were reported to the Wichita Police Department.
Police are investigating after gunshots damaged two homes in southeast Wichita on Friday evening according to Wichita police Sgt. Joe Kennedy.
A man was discovered at the bottom of the pool at Horizons East at N. Rock Road at around a.m on July . Police know his identity but arent releasing his name. He was not a resident and they suspect he drowned. Video by Jaime Green
A former bookkeeper charged with embezzling from the Wichita steel company that employed her pleaded guilty in her criminal case Friday.
The Derby Police Department is looking for two individuals it suspects of using a stolen credit card to make a large purchase at the Derby Target. 
Wichita police and Crime Stoppers seek the publics help in a robbery that occurred June at a business on West Street.
A man died from a medical condition in Newton late Wednesday while evading police arrest according to a Facebook post from the Newton Police Department.
The diversion will delay prosecution of Thomas H. Leland for months and result in dismissal of the case if he adheres to the terms of the agreement.
The Kansas Bureau of Information is seeking information pertaining to a Saline County womans death over the weekend.
Johanna Joe Saada pleaded guilty to vehicular manslaughter and aggravated battery in April in connection with the deadly Dec. collision that killed yearold Jeremy Emerson.
The Wichita Police Department is trying to identify a suspect in connection with several burglaries and larcenies that occurred in Wichita on June . 
Due to a recent increase of accidents in the area of Kellogg and Webb Road the Wichita Police Department will begin heavier enforcement in the intersection starting next week authorities said.
Ron Maring pleaded guilty to one count of tax fraud and false statement and one count of money laundering in a federal criminal case Acting U.S. Attorney Tom Beall said in a news release.
Charles Christopher Logsdon was sentenced Monday to life without the possibility of parole for years in the killing of yearold Jennifer Heckel. He also was sentenced to another years for four other crimes. 
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
Convicted dismemberment killer Stephen Mark McDaniel who in spring pleaded guilty to the June murder of his Mercer University law school classmate Lauren Giddings is now being held at a state prison in Valdosta.
This is a video of Macon police interviewing Stephen McDaniel for the first time following the disappearance of his fellow Mercer University law student Lauren Giddings.
Oops you havent selected any newsletters. Please check the box next to one or more of our email newsletters and submit again.
Oops you didnt provide a valid email address. Please doublecheck the email field and submit again.
The owner of this website lasvegassun.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature becbbdbbua.
KTVL News provides local news weather forecasts notices of events and items of interest in the community entertainment programming for Medford and nearby towns and communities in Southern Oregon and Northern California including Grants Pass Klamath Falls Brookings Gold Beach Lakeview Ashland Cave Junction Eagle Point White City Talent Phoenix Central Point Gold Hill Jacksonville Weed Yreka Mount Shasta Tulelake and Montague.
