It may smell nice and go on smoothly but does your sunscreen actually protect you from the sun 
Tiny water fleas customize their defenses when they sense predators in the water. 
A diminutive woman buried in a cave site in Israel years ago was likely a person of importance and was interred with great ceremony.
One of the fastest cameras in the world can now take better pictures than ever even capturing neurons as they fire according to a new study.
A man in Arizona infected with the West Nile virus became paralyzed from the waist down.
DARPA wants to protect the internet of things with machines
A giant toothy centipede with countless legs is also a swimming fiend making it the first known aquatic centipede on record. And its venomous to boot researchers found. 
Women who wear a sexy outfit in a job application photo may have a much better shot of landing an interview a new study that involved mostly male job recruiters finds. 
When the U.S. Olympic team heads to Brazil some athletes will be studied to see if they become infected with the Zika virus.
During its lifetime about million years ago a duckbilled dinosaur dwarf walked around with a tumor on its lower jaw though the unusual growth likely didnt cause any pain a new study finds.
With the headset on I could look behind me to see a huge Jupiter as we passed from pole to pole and in front of me I could see the spacecraft eventually seeing through the protective titanium vault to see the individual experiments electronics.
Using customized skullcaps fitted with electrodes the researchers zapped the brains of novice pilots with the brain patterns of six flight experts hoping they could improve their performance during flight simulation training.
If hostile aliens were to blow our moon to bits or cause some serious damage to it human would be in serious trouble even if we managed to successfully repel an extraterrestrial threat.
Independent source of news and analysis from the academic and research community.
The national fireworks on July this year will be joined by celestial fireworks as NASAs Juno mission arrives at Jupiter after five years of travel from Earth. Principals of the mission and its scientific experiments discussed the plans for the orbital insertion at a press conference at NASAs Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena CA today as Juno reached Jupiters doorstep.
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more.
Genetically modified food has been declared safe for human consumption but not everyone is convinced including Greenpeace. Now more than Nobel laureates are urging the environmental organization to halt its antiGMO campaign.
Researchers from the Washington University in St. Louis are working on a project to create cyborg locusts. The bugs will be able to perform better in bomb detection compared with robots due to their powerful sense of smell.
A facial tumor found in the skull of a dinosaur fossil is the first of its kind ever discovered. What do we know about this ancient animal
Phobos and Deimos are the only major natural satellites orbiting Mars today but computer simulations suggest they were once accompanied by a third massive companion. What do we know about this ancient Martian moon
Researchers in Norway came up with a threedimensional maze that features microorganisms that either function as PacMan or the carnivorous ghosts. What is the purpose of this reallife PacMan game
As a greenhouse gas carbon dioxide is a climate killer but in the right light it may be useful. Scientists in Germany discovered an efficient catalyst that could convert carbon dioxide into materials needed by the chemical industry.
Sir Ian Wilmut whose team gave life to Dolly the Sheep suggests a biobank that contains the biological material of various animals could revolutionize conservation efforts. The idea is similar to a modernday Noahs ark.
MU is believed to be one of the first building blocks of the Solar System and may shed light on planetary accretion. NASAs New Horizons is set to visit this icy Kuiper belt object by .
Spectacular new infrared images from the Ultra Deep Survey revealed a deep glimpse of the distant universe. What can astronomers learn from these infrared images
A vivid shade of blue discovered through a happy accident will soon be made available for purchase. The new color could have several practical uses experts said.
A new study found that evolution appears to follow the path of least resistance which can lead to suboptimal physical traits that do not typically match functional needs.
Officials from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency revealed that they have detected high levels of sulfur dioxide SO in St. Bernard Parish in Louisiana. Facilities in the area have been given until to meet federal standards on SO pollution.
China has installed the finishing touches to the worlds largest radio telescope two months ahead of schedule. The radio telescope will help scientists detect any sign of extraterrestrial life.
Carregal do Sal was an advanced astronomical tool for a Stone Age monument. How does it stack up to others such as Stonehenge and the Pyramids of Giza
Pavlof Volcano in Alaska is showing signs it could erupt soon. How real is the danger to surrounding communities
The Antarctic ozone hole shows signs of shrinking. Scientists said the healing of the ozone layer could be primarily attributed to a international treaty that sought to ban CFCs and similar substances.
The Northern Hemisphere jet stream has crossed the equator and joined the Southern Hemisphere jet stream is this a cause for concern and a reason to declare a global climate emergency Careful about these viral claims say atmospheric scientists.
Tourists can now witness the lava flow oozing from Klauea after Hawaii County officials opened the emergency access road to the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park for sightseeing. The road is open to visitors from p.m. to p.m. daily.
The White Shark Cafe is an area of the Pacific Ocean where sharks make tremendous dives for unknown reasons. Biologists have a plan to find out why a shark cam.
Heres a quick rundown of countries and companies with Mars exploration missions including the India Mangalyaan probe Europes ExoMars program and the Elon Musksteered Red Planet mission of SpaceX.
Sileo drug for dogs is the first and only FDA approved medication to help furry friends deal with noise aversion which they could suffer from during the forthcoming July Fourth fireworks.
The Dawn spacecraft is set to remain in Ceres orbit after plans to have the probe extend its mission to another asteroid were rejected by NASA planners. The proposed mission would have sent it to the Adeona asteroid.
A new study suggests that the enigmatic frigate bird can stay aloft for weeks without even touching the ground. How exactly can this aquatic bird accomplish this feat
Eau de comet ladies British scientists partnered with a perfume company to create a scent that mimics the smell of a comets surface. Despite sounding glamorous it might deliver a knockout punch to your date in more ways than one.
Sand dunes on Mars have three types of ripples while those on dry land here on Earth show just two. What can this tell us about the geological past of the Red Planet
Ancient stone tombs may have been more than just a final resting place for the dead a new study suggests. These structures may have also served as prehistoric telescopes albeit without the lens.
Like humans pea plants can also call the shots. A new study has demonstrated these plants incredible ability to take risks and gamble all for the sake of nutrients.
Decades after the Montreal Protocol was signed scientists have found that the gaping hole in the Antarctic Ozone is slowly healing. Researchers believe the planet is starting to get better.
Jupiter has been visited by spacecraft six times prior to the upcoming arrival of Juno on July . What did these missions teach us about the largest planet in the solar system
Ceres contains strange bright spots that astronomers thought they had explained. New analysis of data from the Dawn spacecraft suggests the answer may not be so simple.
Cities today are built from concrete and steel but a new research suggests that artificial bone and eggshells may soon replace these conventional materials. Doing so would support a growing population and save the environment.
A dinner on Mars is possible after all. Scientists have successfully grown crops on Marslike soil and found they are safe to eat and possibly healthier than the same crops grown using regular potting soil.
Climate change is seriously affecting populations of Adelie penguins in Antarctica. How much of a danger does global climate change present to these animals
Excessive light pollution is messing up Mother Natures schedule. A study finds that nighttime light pollution is causing trees even the laterbudding ones to bud earlier at least a week in advance.
Researchers from NASA and the University of California Irvine warn that the El Nio phenomenon is causing the Amazon to become more susceptible to wildfires this year. Satellite readings show that the region is at its driest point since .
Cozmo is a tiny robotic companion animated by machine learning computer vision and artificial intelligence. The little robot is so powerful its makers claim it can process more data than all of the Mars Rovers combined.
Despite efforts to protect the Amazon rainforest new research suggests that its biodiversity remains threatened by human disturbances. In fact the Amazon has become more flammable even in protected areas.
Blue Origins new rocket facility in Florida will be large enough to accommodate the manufacturing of orbital rockets. The company is focusing its efforts on reusable rockets that could land and launch again and again.
Famed theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking shared his thoughts on the problems currently plaguing humanity during his interview with Larry King on Larry King Now. He said stupidity and greed are two of the biggest threats to mankind right now.
A pair of wellpreserved wings that belonged to Enantiornithes was found encased in an amber mined in Myanmar. The wings revealed that the ancient birds were almost fully developed when they were hatched.
New research suggests that the Mediterranean Sea is being threatened by invasive species of deadly lionfish. The invasion is spurred by warming waters and the widening of the Suez Canal.
Officials from the East Bay Regional Park closed down Lake Temescal to swimmers on Monday because of the presence of toxic algae in the water. This is the third consecutive year the lake has been closed due to algal blooms.
New data sent back from the NASA Curiosity rover showed that manganese oxides on Mars may be clues of a possible once oxygenrich Martian atmosphere. Is the Red Planet was once more Earthlike than we thought
Keplerf is an Earthsize planet in the habitable zone of a star about lightyears from Earth artists rendering.
Science mattered more than ever in . Climate science questions raged after Super Typhoon Haiyan pummeled the Philippines. And scientific expertise figured in disarmament debates in Syria and in Irans proposed halt to its nuclear activities.
Meanwhile on the pure research front investigators made plenty of intriguing discoveries in . With plenty to choose from and argue over heres a top five list of some favorites from the year. And while youre at it check out National Geographics Year in Review.
. Space gets more crowded. Buy land theyre not making it anymore Mark Twain famously advised investors. Twain never heard of exoplanets of course. Caltech researchers suggested this year that at least billion such worlds orbit stars in our Milky Way galaxy. Thats a lot of new real estate. See Smallest Exoplanets FoundEach Tinier Than Earth.
Of course not all of them are places you would want to live. A November analysis from NASAs Keck Observatory team suggested that one in five stars may have Earthsize planets orbiting in their habitable zoneszones that could be friendly to surface oceans. A more recent climate analysis of habitable zones said that number may be too high but that is still plenty of planets.
A scientist removes the nucleus from a human egg using a pipette. This is the first step to making personalized embryonic stem cells.
After more than a decade of false starts Oregon Health and Science University researchers announced they had cloned human embryos and collected stem cells from them. They also grew the cells into specialized skin and heart cells a first step toward using them in transplant medicine.
The key to the teams success turned out to be the addition of caffeine to the cloning process. Now researchers will seek to discover whether these cells or similar induced stem cells made without embryos will have the most medical use.
One of the years biggest announcements came from news that actually happened in . The aftershocks of a pair of solar storms in September confirmed that NASAs venerable Voyager spacecraft had actually entered interstellar space. See Voyager Leaves Solar System NASA Confirms.
It is an incredible event to send the first human object into interstellar space study lead author Donald Gurnett of the University of Iowa in Iowa City told National Geographic.
NASA had long been hoping to announce that the farflung spacecraft launched in had passed the edges of the solar wind. Voyager s twin Voyager is also expected to soon reach interstellar space.
NASAs Curiosity rover landed in the Martian crater known as Gale Crater which is approximately the size of Connecticut and Rhode Island combined.
NASAs Curiosity rover continued to make historic tracks in finding that a vanished lake on the red planet could have supported life there more than three billion years ago.
The human family tree suddenly sprouted some funkylooking shoots after a year of ancient DNA and fossil discoveries.
At the Dmanisi site in the Republic of Georgia for example researchers reported that what seemed like a lot of differentlooking early human species likely were just one Homo erectus. They based the claim on the discovery of a .millionyearold skull blessed with a mixture of more ancient and more recent characteristics. See Beautiful Skull Spurs Debate on Human History.
On the genetic front what looked like a Neanderthal bone in a Spanish cave turned out to actually possess the genesthe oldest DNA yet sequencedof a different vanished early human species the Denisovans.
Meanwhile Siberias Denisova cave where Denisovan fossils were first discovered in yielded a toe bone that belonged to a Neanderthal woman from perhaps years ago. See Ancient Incest Uncovered in Neanderthal Genome.
This finding suggests that archaic humans mated with Homo erectus as well as with some early modern humans in prehistory. A lot of modern people have a little archaic human in their genes it turns out.
It has its origins in mankinds quest to defeat a bacteria infamous for causing cholera. 
Israeli cave finds challenge our theories about evolutions winners and losers.
A quest to understand one of humanitys most fascinating and dangerous disorders
Yellowstone Lake presents some challenges that even the Mariana Trench cant match
The reign of the dinosaurs was in retreat millions of years before the asteroid hit 
It has its origins in mankinds quest to defeat a bacteria infamous for causing cholera. 
Israeli cave finds challenge our theories about evolutions winners and losers.
A quest to understand one of humanitys most fascinating and dangerous disorders
Yellowstone Lake presents some challenges that even the Mariana Trench cant match
The reign of the dinosaurs was in retreat millions of years before the asteroid hit 
Millions of trees are being lost every year as a result of deforestation but which countries are most under threat from the loss of trees 
Bighitting West Indian Chris Gayle and England allrounder Ben Stokes have a huge advantage scientists say because they hold the bat the other way round 
It has its origins in mankinds quest to defeat a bacteria infamous for causing cholera. 
Israeli cave finds challenge our theories about evolutions winners and losers.
A quest to understand one of humanitys most fascinating and dangerous disorders
Yellowstone Lake presents some challenges that even the Mariana Trench cant match
The reign of the dinosaurs was in retreat millions of years before the asteroid hit 
It has its origins in mankinds quest to defeat a bacteria infamous for causing cholera. 
Israeli cave finds challenge our theories about evolutions winners and losers.
A quest to understand one of humanitys most fascinating and dangerous disorders
Yellowstone Lake presents some challenges that even the Mariana Trench cant match
The reign of the dinosaurs was in retreat millions of years before the asteroid hit 
Keplerf is an Earthsize planet in the habitable zone of a star about lightyears from Earth artists rendering.
Science mattered more than ever in . Climate science questions raged after Super Typhoon Haiyan pummeled the Philippines. And scientific expertise figured in disarmament debates in Syria and in Irans proposed halt to its nuclear activities.
Meanwhile on the pure research front investigators made plenty of intriguing discoveries in . With plenty to choose from and argue over heres a top five list of some favorites from the year. And while youre at it check out National Geographics Year in Review.
. Space gets more crowded. Buy land theyre not making it anymore Mark Twain famously advised investors. Twain never heard of exoplanets of course. Caltech researchers suggested this year that at least billion such worlds orbit stars in our Milky Way galaxy. Thats a lot of new real estate. See Smallest Exoplanets FoundEach Tinier Than Earth.
Of course not all of them are places you would want to live. A November analysis from NASAs Keck Observatory team suggested that one in five stars may have Earthsize planets orbiting in their habitable zoneszones that could be friendly to surface oceans. A more recent climate analysis of habitable zones said that number may be too high but that is still plenty of planets.
A scientist removes the nucleus from a human egg using a pipette. This is the first step to making personalized embryonic stem cells.
After more than a decade of false starts Oregon Health and Science University researchers announced they had cloned human embryos and collected stem cells from them. They also grew the cells into specialized skin and heart cells a first step toward using them in transplant medicine.
The key to the teams success turned out to be the addition of caffeine to the cloning process. Now researchers will seek to discover whether these cells or similar induced stem cells made without embryos will have the most medical use.
One of the years biggest announcements came from news that actually happened in . The aftershocks of a pair of solar storms in September confirmed that NASAs venerable Voyager spacecraft had actually entered interstellar space. See Voyager Leaves Solar System NASA Confirms.
It is an incredible event to send the first human object into interstellar space study lead author Donald Gurnett of the University of Iowa in Iowa City told National Geographic.
NASA had long been hoping to announce that the farflung spacecraft launched in had passed the edges of the solar wind. Voyager s twin Voyager is also expected to soon reach interstellar space.
NASAs Curiosity rover landed in the Martian crater known as Gale Crater which is approximately the size of Connecticut and Rhode Island combined.
NASAs Curiosity rover continued to make historic tracks in finding that a vanished lake on the red planet could have supported life there more than three billion years ago.
The human family tree suddenly sprouted some funkylooking shoots after a year of ancient DNA and fossil discoveries.
At the Dmanisi site in the Republic of Georgia for example researchers reported that what seemed like a lot of differentlooking early human species likely were just one Homo erectus. They based the claim on the discovery of a .millionyearold skull blessed with a mixture of more ancient and more recent characteristics. See Beautiful Skull Spurs Debate on Human History.
On the genetic front what looked like a Neanderthal bone in a Spanish cave turned out to actually possess the genesthe oldest DNA yet sequencedof a different vanished early human species the Denisovans.
Meanwhile Siberias Denisova cave where Denisovan fossils were first discovered in yielded a toe bone that belonged to a Neanderthal woman from perhaps years ago. See Ancient Incest Uncovered in Neanderthal Genome.
This finding suggests that archaic humans mated with Homo erectus as well as with some early modern humans in prehistory. A lot of modern people have a little archaic human in their genes it turns out.
HOW DO THEY DO IT lifts the bonnet on the modern world to reveal how it works. It is about engineering and scientific miracles and the people whose ability to solve problems make them happen. How Do They Do It celebrates the planets most ama .
Renowned recordbreaking British explorer Ed Stafford returns in a new series as he sets out on a quest of a very different kind seeking the truth behind mysterious satellite images of Earths most remote locations.
This compelling series follows the lives of people each weighing over lbs. Through their yearlong journeys they attempt to lose thousands of pounds collectively to survive. These stories are about much more than weight loss theyre abo .
Followed by a cameraman adventurer Bear Grylls uses his military training and daring spirit to demonstrate extreme survival skills.
My lb Life follows the lives of eight people each weighing over pounds through their yearlong journey as they collectively try to lose thousands of pounds.
Grady and Josh are stranded in the freezing Bulgaria wilderness and need to make a fire quickly. Grady uses skills he learned as a Green Beret to make a fire in a pinch.
Turns out falling asleep at breakfast can catch you more than crab. Find out why from Captain Sig Hansen of the Northwestern.
Take an exclusive look at the luxurious lives of the Naked And Afraid With Camp Tours you can see what each of the South African Naked And Afraid XL camps provide for the survivalists.
In this edition of Naked And Afraid XL Camp Tours see what resources the Tsonga Basin has for the survivalists.
In this edition of Naked And Afraid XL Camp Tours see what resources the Pondo Ravine has for the survivalists.
In this edition of Naked And Afraid XL Camp Tours see what resources the Swati Valley has for the survivalists.
In this edition of Naked And Afraid XL Camp Tours see what resources the Sotho Gorge has for the survivalists.
Hunting in the shallow murky waters of Cape Cod have caused great white sharks to adapt their hunting techniques. However this also leads to some mistakes. From Shark Week s Shark Bait.
Like most websites Discovery sites use cookies to help you experience all the great content we have to offer. To find out more about cookies and how you can manage them please see our privacy policy. By continuing to use this website you agree to our use of cookies.
Filter News by News Type and Research Area. Get News Updates by Email or by RSS.
A new powerboat that runs on sustainable fuel will be on the high seas in no time fighting wildlife crime.
On July NASAs Juno mission arrived at Jupiter after carrying out a pictureperfect orbital insertion maneuver.
A drought in northern Paraguay has driven thousands of thirsty alligators to crowd around lakes and wells.
Arturo was the latest of more than animals to die over recent months at the zoo in the western city of Mendoza.
Treating some of the underlying diseases of aging could slow down or delay aging by or years
Y Chinas homegrown large transport aircraft officially joined the Peoples Liberation Army Air Force on Wednesday.
China will put another weather satellites into service by up from the current seven in a bid to better monitor weather patterns to benefit society.
China will put more meteorological satellites into orbit over the next decade according to a conference on Monday.
Combined photos shows pictures presenting the process of installation of panels on the Fivehundredmeter Aperture Spherical Telescope in Guizhou province.
The final panel was placed onto the worlds largest singleaperture radio telescope on Sunday putting the project on target to start searching the stars this year.
China has successfully carried out its first inorbit refueling test which observers say means it can now prolong the life span of its satellites and spacecraft.
The worlds largestever radio telescope completed installation as the last piece of panels was fitted in the center of the big dish on Sunday morning a landmark step for its planned operation in September.
The twostorey house in Beijings Tongzhou district was completed in only days thanks to nonstop printing according to a report by the Mirror on Monday.
Earthquake monitoring stations across China are making use of nature to supplement their manmade early warning systems.
Mark the AI biometric machine lost to Wang Yiheng a former contestant in the game show The Brain in a threeround contest where the two competed in recognizing large numbers of photos of the faces of cyber celebrities.
Chinese botanists have identified a species of azalea that is unique in the world giving it a conservation value as high as the giant panda Chengdu Economic Daily reported.
Nearly million years ago two baby birds were trapped in the sticky sap of a tropical forest tree. Now their wings entombed in amber are giving scientists fresh insights into the evolution of birds. The tiny specimens were found in the Hukawng Valley in northern Myanmar and described in the journal Nature Communications.
Images of students using ice cubes to cool down under the southwestern Guangxi Zhuang autonomous regions harsh summer sun have gone viral online.
Though large in stature most big dinosaurs that once roamed the Earth were herbivores.
Dragon Tails explores the incredible world of snapping turtles and all of the folklore .
Experience the awesome aerial acrobatics and ferocious intensity of Great White Sharks as they .
Have you ever dreamed of swimming with a Manatee Well on this weeks Behind .
Though large in stature most big dinosaurs that once roamed the Earth were herbivores.
Dragon Tails explores the incredible world of snapping turtles and all of the folklore .
Experience the awesome aerial acrobatics and ferocious intensity of Great White Sharks as they .
Have you ever dreamed of swimming with a Manatee Well on this weeks Behind .
Image Credits DCL. By visiting this site you agree to the terms and conditions of our Questions See the policy for the contact information. For questions about Discovery Kids contact 
Copyright Discovery Communications LLC. The worlds payTV programmer.
My lb Life follows the lives of eight people each weighing over pounds through their yearlong journey as they collectively try to lose thousands of pounds.
Myke Hawke is a former Special Forces survival expert. His wife Ruth is a TV journalist. Together they take on some of the most forbidding and remote locations around the world
MUMBAI RAILWAY will go behind the scenes of Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus supersized transport operation to reveal how the stations staff and technological systems cope as they are stretched to breaking point on a daily basis. Itll be a revealing journey into the everyday workings of an extraordinary station that is a microcosm of India congested vibrant hot colorful and dangerous organized chaos supported by a backbone of bureaucracy. With access to control rooms and signal boxes drivers cabs and engineering workshops as well as the policemen porters and dabba wallas who direct help and feed travellers this series will tell the story of the megacity of Mumbai its station and its transport challenges over four hours.
This series dramatizes some of the scariest stories of supernatural activity revealing a world in which tragedy suicide and murder have left psychic impressions so powerful that innocent people have been forced to deal with them decades later. Through mesmerizing firstperson accounts the mystery and origin of each haunting is powerfully unraveled.
Explores the mindboggling logistics colossal cuisine and extraordinary characters behind the worlds biggest most extreme kitchens and restaurants. Each episode visits a different restaurant to reveal its secret workings from the worlds biggest truck stop to the US Armys largest dining area.from a jumbo jet catering facility to the biggest kitchen cruising on the open ocean.
st American Chemical SocietyNational Meeting ExpositionMarch San Diego CA
EurekAlert provides embargoed and breaking science news you cant afford to miss.
EurekAlert is a service of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Copyright by the American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS
Copyright by the American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS
My lb Life follows the lives of eight people each weighing over pounds through their yearlong journey as they collectively try to lose thousands of pounds.
Myke Hawke is a former Special Forces survival expert. His wife Ruth is a TV journalist. Together they take on some of the most forbidding and remote locations around the world
MUMBAI RAILWAY will go behind the scenes of Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus supersized transport operation to reveal how the stations staff and technological systems cope as they are stretched to breaking point on a daily basis. Itll be a revealing journey into the everyday workings of an extraordinary station that is a microcosm of India congested vibrant hot colorful and dangerous organized chaos supported by a backbone of bureaucracy. With access to control rooms and signal boxes drivers cabs and engineering workshops as well as the policemen porters and dabba wallas who direct help and feed travellers this series will tell the story of the megacity of Mumbai its station and its transport challenges over four hours.
This series dramatizes some of the scariest stories of supernatural activity revealing a world in which tragedy suicide and murder have left psychic impressions so powerful that innocent people have been forced to deal with them decades later. Through mesmerizing firstperson accounts the mystery and origin of each haunting is powerfully unraveled.
Explores the mindboggling logistics colossal cuisine and extraordinary characters behind the worlds biggest most extreme kitchens and restaurants. Each episode visits a different restaurant to reveal its secret workings from the worlds biggest truck stop to the US Armys largest dining area.from a jumbo jet catering facility to the biggest kitchen cruising on the open ocean.
Filter News by News Type and Research Area. Get News Updates by Email or by RSS.
st American Chemical SocietyNational Meeting ExpositionMarch San Diego CA
EurekAlert provides embargoed and breaking science news you cant afford to miss.
EurekAlert is a service of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Copyright by the American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS
Copyright by the American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS
GENEVA Scientists at Europes physics research center CERN are preparing to unwrap the biggest trove of data yet from the Large Hadron Collider LHC three years after they confirmed the existence of the elusive Higgs boson.
PARIS Airbus Group and Safran pledged on Thursday to make Europe competitive in the face of U.S. lowcost rival SpaceX as they completed a deal to merge their space launcher activities.
TOULOUSE The European spacecraft Rosetta will crashland on the surface of the comet PChuryumovGerasimenko and end its year space odyssey on Sept. Frances National Centre for Space Studies CNES said on Thursday.
DARMSTADT Germany Dreaming of a trip to Mars Youll have to wait at least years for the technology to be developed the head of the European Space Agency ESA said putting doubt on claims that the journey could happen sooner.
FRANKFURT Britains first official astronaut said on Tuesday he would join another trip to the International Space Station in a heartbeat and would love to explore the moon.
Snoring can be a sign of sleep apnea a sleep disorder that can lead to serious health problems. The problem is that most people who suffer from sleep apnea dont even realize they have it.
PARISLONDON French drugmaker Sanofi said on Wednesday it had struck a research and development deal with the U.S. Army to speed up the development of a vaccine against the mosquitoborne Zika virus.
All quotes delayed a minimum of minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays. 
Dinosaurs were fearsome creatures. Some had thick scales sharp teeth and in many cases lightningfast reflexes.
Radio signals twinkle in much the same way as bright stars appear to do at optical wavelengths. This can have effects on GPS causing the signals to brighten and fade and reach Earth at unpredictable times. All of this could degrade the accuracy of GPS positioning.
Air quality is a global issue. Currents of air waft gaseous and particulate pollutants from region to region country to country and even continent to continent. Emissions from human activities sunlight weather pollution from far away wildfires and windblown dust can all affect air quality. And it can change from day to day or even hour to hour. Addressing this global issue requires a global effort. And that effort is in the works.
For the first time researchers have identified a genetic marker associated with a spaceflight medical issue. It is in the enzymes associated with the carbon pathway. 
Mars and Saturn are getting together in the constellation Scorpius for backtoback oppositions in May and June .
On May they will see a strange spot on the suna dark circle moving across the solar disk. This is no ordinary sunspot. Its the planet Mercury making a rare transit of the sun.
Assembly of the next great space observatory the James Webb Space Telescope JWST is now underway at NASAs Goddard Space Flight Center. 
With its blue skies puffy white clouds warm beaches and abundant life planet Earth is a pretty special place. A quick survey of the solar system reveals nothing else like it. But how special is Earth really
When the Space Age began more than years ago explorers were eager to visit the planets of the solar system. As the years have passed however astronomers have realized that the moons of the solar system may be even more interesting.
Australianbased Naked and Afraid contestant spills the beans about his time on the show.
We caught up with Sean Dwyer the youngest captain ever in the history of the Deadliest Catch. 
Meet the men who brew their shine and the local authorities who try to keep them honest.
Deep in the Alaskan wilderness lives a newly discovered family who was born and raised wild.
Discovery Education offers a broad range of free classroom resources that complement and extend learning beyond the bell.
Foster deeper engagement and opportunities for students to take charge of their own learning with high quality engaging relevant tools designed for todays busy teachers and parents. Explore our programs and contests interactive games puzzleslesson plans videos and more.
Follow the presidential election with online resources videos and live events
Last update A new kind of black hole once a theory now firmly within observers sight hour ago
Early life forms on Earth are likely to have mutated and evolved at much higher rates than they do today suggests a new analysis from researchers at the University of North Carolina.
Phys.orgA team of researchers working at South Koreas National Institute of Science and Technology has found a way to make building flexible pressure sensors easierby mimicking the suction cups on octopuss tentacles. .
Researchers at MITs research center in Singapore have developed a new microfluidic device that tests the effects of electric fields on cancer cells. They observed that a range of lowintensity middlefrequency electric .
A collaborative effort by cancer researchers at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory CSHL and chemists at Boehringer Ingelheim BI a pharmaceutical firm has resulted in the identification of a new drug target in leukemia and .
Phys.orgA team of researchers with affiliations to several universities in the U.S. has found evidence that suggests that cosmic rays striking balls of ice floating around in interstellar clouds can cause the formation .
Mimicking nature is not easy but new insights by researchers at the Department of Energys Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Berkeley Lab could help create a viable artificial system of photosynthesis.
Place this thin layer of plastic in the sun and it begins to oscillate irregularly all by itself. Today researchers from Eindhoven University of Technology TUe and the Humboldt University in Berlin present this material .
In creating fuels from agricultural waste and other biomass water slows a solid acid catalysts ability to get the job done costing time and energy. But scientists didnt know how the adverse reactions occurred. A team .
Laser printouts on paper might be used as a platform for lowcost organic electronics microfluidic or sensor applications. German scientists at Humboldt University Berlin have now developed a procedure for the selective .
At feet above Melbourne three scientists wait anxiously for the signal to jump their arms crossed protectively across their chests a modified plastic syringe in each hand the plane engines and wind roaring around .
Scientists from the University of York have developed an innovative new green method of capturing carbon dioxide CO emissions from power stations chemical and other large scale manufacturing plants.
Detecting pesticides and nerve gas in very low concentrations. An international team of researchers led by Ivo Stassen and Rob Ameloot from KU Leuven Belgium have made it possible.
Researchers at MIT are making fluorescent polymer gels that change color when theyre shaken heated exposed to acid or otherwise disrupted. Given such a response these novel materials could be effective sensors for detecting .
UC Berkeley engineer Phillip Messersmith is happy to be learning lessons from a lowly mollusk with the expectation that the knowledge gained will enable him and fellow physicians to prevent deaths among their youngest patientsthose .
MIT researchers have developed lowcost chemical sensors made from chemically altered carbon nanotubes that enable smartphones or other wireless devices to detect trace amounts of toxic gases.
Washington State University researchers have developed a unique multifunctional smart material that can change shape from heat or light and assemble and disassemble itself. They have filed a provisional patent on the work.
University of Pennsylvania engineers have developed a rapid lowcost genetic test for the Zika virus. The testing device about the size of a soda can does not require electricity or technical expertise to use. A patient .
What if testing yourself for cancer or other diseases were as easy as testing your blood sugar or taking a home pregnancy test In a few years it might be.
A team of scientists from the University of Alberta is examining compounds with antiprion properties which can alter the misfolding of proteins in rare but universally fatal prion diseases like Mad Cow and CreutzfeldJakob. .
Phys.orgA team of researchers at IBMs Research facility in Almaden San Jose the same site where Watson was developed has developed a onestep process for recycling polycarbonates into another type of plasticone .
A hydrogenfuel economy could finally become a reality with the recent discovery of a cheap stable and efficient means of getting hydrogen from water.
Forget mousetrapstodays scientists will get the cheese if they manage to build a better battery.
Scientists have created an ironbased ring structure that could be used for new applications in electronics and sensing.
The enzyme sirtuin or SIRT serves many key biological functions in regulating genome stability DNA repair metabolism and longevity but how its multiple enzyme activities relate to its various functions is poorly understood.
Deep inside the electronic devices that proliferate in our world from cell phones to solar cells layer upon layer of almost unimaginably small transistors and delicate circuitry shuttle allimportant electrons back and .
Phys.orgLast year researchers at George Washington University proposed a method for transforming CO emissions into carbon nanotubes CNTs. When applied to power plants the technology could completely eliminate the .
Cytochrome P is a wellknown family of enzymes that are involved in drug metabolism. The active site contains a heme chemical structure in which an iron atom is bound to the heme cofactor within the enzyme. The oxidation .
A recent study led by Xi Chen associate professor of earth and environmental engineering at Columbia Engineering and Klaus Lackner at Arizona State University reports an unconventional reversible chemical reaction in a .
Phys.orgChiral molecules can be found in chemically equivalent lefthanded L and righthanded D mirrorimage forms each commonly referred to as an enantiomer. Synthetic sugars and other chiral molecules made in .
If you leave a cube of JellO on the kitchen counter eventually its water will evaporate leaving behind a shrunken hardened masshardly an appetizing confection. The same is true for hydrogels. Made mostly of water .
Phys.orgA combined team of researchers from the Australian National University and City University of Hong Kong has created a material that is capable of mimicking the action of a mimosa leaflet when it is touched. In .
What goes on inside the brain when we learn new things Much still remains wrapped in mystery but scientists have found a way to examine this at the molecular level.
Phys.orgA combined team of researchers from the Chinese Academy of Sciences and University of California has found a way to degrade ordinary plastics in a way that allows for fuel to be created from plastic trash. In .
To keep greenhouse gas carbon dioxide from entering the environment it must be stored or even better used as a raw material. The first step in such processes is the efficient separation of CO from exhaust leaving power .
A Stanford University research lab has developed new technologies to tackle two of the worlds biggest energy challenges clean fuel for transportation and gridscale energy storage.
Phys.orgAmericans consume billion eggs per year and while some of the eggshell waste is used for fertilizer or dietary supplements the majority of these eggshells are thrown away. In a new study researchers at .
In a dimly lit room next to a supersonic jet engine test rig three Stanford engineering graduate students sat around a whiskey bottle.
A future with hydrogen fuelcell vehicles and hydrogenpowered smartphones is much closer to reality.
Scientists at the University of Bristol have developed a new kind of bioink which could eventually allow the production of complex tissues for surgical implants.
Phys.orgResearchers at Stanford University have fabricated a stretchable colorchanging pressuresensitive materialbasically the closest thing yet to an artificial chameleon skin. Touching the new electronic skin .
Phys.orgOne thing that all chemical reactions have in commonwhether they are the reactions that take place inside a battery the metabolic reactions inside a living organism or the combustion reactions that cause .
Astronomers Aaron Smith and Volker Bromm of The University of Texas at Austin working with Avi Loeb of the HarvardSmithsonian Center for Astrophysics have discovered evidence for an unusual kind of black hole born extremely .
For decades nuclear physicists have tried to learn more about which elements or their various isotopes are magic.
Air pollutants interact with and break down plantemitted scent molecules which insect pollinators use to locate needed food according to a team of researchers led by Penn State. The pollutionmodified plant odors can .
A recent drought completely shut down the Amazon Basins carbon sink by killing trees and slowing their growth a groundbreaking study led by researchers at the Universities of Exeter and Leeds has found. Previous research .
Phys.orgLocated some light years away the brown dwarf designated WISEP J.. or W for short turns out to be a source of radio emission. According to a research paper published July this substellar .
What motivates people to contribute to trustful moral judgment which is a public good yet tends to be costly This is the moral free rider problem. Mathematician Tatsuya Sasaki from University of Vienna and colleagues .
Researchers at MIT and elsewhere have developed a new combination of methods that can provide detailed information about the microstructure of polycrystalline metals.
The angular resolution of a telescope is the smallest angle between two objects that still can be resolved as separate things in a telescope with high angular resolution those objects can be very close together and yet .
A longstanding debate on the colonisation process of Oceania has been put to rest with new research finding Polynesia was deliberately settled in one of the greatest maritime migrations in human history.
Birds have a very successful history and rich fossil record that includes dinosaurs and dates back to million years. They are famous for flying and singing and have complex ways of doing both. It is known that these two .
Google on Wednesday announced a deal to buy Moodstocks a French startup behind technology that helps smartphones recognize whatever they are aimed at.
University of Utah mathematicians showed it is theoretically possible to design ideal climbing ropes to safely slow falling rock and mountain climbers like brakes decelerate a car. They hope someone develops a material to .
Researchers in the Cockrell School of Engineering at The University of Texas at Austin have been able to quantify fundamental physical limitations on the performance of cloaking devices a technology that allows objects to .
Goats have the capacity to communicate with people like other domesticated animals such as dogs and horses according to scientists from Queen Mary University of London QMUL.
If conditions had been just a little different an eon ago there might be plentiful life on Venus and none on Earth.
New research has found that green turtles hatching en masse from their nests swamp predators allowing more individuals to reach the safety of the sea.
More than years ago a protoglobalization process started in the Indian Ocean one of the outcomes being a great human migration of African and Asian peoples spreading across the Indian Ocean to inhabit the fourth .
A microbial partnership thriving in an acidic hot spring in Yellowstone National Park has surrendered some of its lifestyle secrets to researchers at the Department of Energys Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
Graphene has emerged as one of the most promising twodimensional crystals but the future of electronics may include two other nanomaterials according to a new study by researchers at the University of California Riverside .
Exceedingly wellpreserved bird fossil specimens dating million years represent a new species that is a previously unknown relative of the modernday ostrich according to a new paper coauthored by Sterling Nesbitt of .
Phys.orgAs the saying goes no two fingerprints are alike and the same is true for quantum fingerprints. Just as a human fingerprint is only a fraction of the size of a person yet can be used to distinguish between .
Phys.orgA team of researchers at Cornell University has built and run a simulation that showed prebiotic reactions could possibly occur on the surface of one of Saturns moons Titan suggesting the possibility of life .
Phys.orgA pair of researchers one with the Columbia Astrobiology Center in New York the other with the University of Glasgow in the U.K. has come up with a mathematical equation that when solved is meant to offer a .
The first U.S. fatality using selfdriving technology took place in May when the driver of a Tesla S sports car operating the vehicles Autopilot automated driving system died after a collision with a truck in Florida .
A NASAfunded research team led by Mihaly Horanyi at the University of ColoradoBoulder CUBolder has conducted laboratory experiments to bring closure to a longstanding issue of electrostatic dust transport explaining .
A new reconstruction of Antarctic ocean temperatures around the time the dinosaurs disappeared million years ago supports the idea that one of the planets biggest mass extinctions was due to the combined effects of volcanic .
Lungpenetrating dust from coalfired power plants in the European Union claims some lives a year and racks up tens of billions of euros in health costs an NGO report said Tuesday.
New model shows that reducing fossil fuel emissions and improving adaptation efforts may reduce heatrelated deaths in New York City.
FALLOUT FORENSICS A new technique allowed researchers to accurately estimate the energy release from the Trinity nuclear test in New Mexico shown. The method could help regulators enforce nonproliferation treaties the researchers say.
TWO TALES Immune cells taken from mice that had their brains reward systems activated right killed more E. coli than immune cells taken from control mice left. 
SOLAR SYSTEM SEARCH Researchers are trying to pin down where to find a hypothetical ninth planet in the solar system illustrated.
YOUNG SKULLS A new statistical analysis of skulls and teeth suggests that a recently discovered South African hominid dubbed Homo naledi lived around years ago. Thats roughly million years later than estimated by other researchers. H. naledi skulls shown here were included in the new study.
Like most websites Discovery sites use cookies to help you experience all the great content we have to offer. To find out more about cookies and how you can manage them please see our privacy policy. By continuing to use this website you agree to our use of cookies.
It permeates everyday life. Yet the understanding of advances in biomedical science is limited at best. Few people make the connection that biomedical science is medicine and that biomedical scientists are working today for the medicine of tomorrow. Our weekly fivehundred word newspaper column and twominute radio show provide insights into a broad range of biomedical science topics. Medical Discovery News is dedicated to explaining discoveries in biomedical research and their promise for the future of medicine.
Each release is designed to stimulate listeners to think question and appreciate how science affects their health as well as that of the rest of the world. We also delve into significant biomedical discoveries and portray how science or the lack of it has impacted health throughout history.
A mummified iceman found thirty five years ago in the Italian Alps continues to talk to us from the dead. Dubbed Otzi by scientists the man lived five thousand years ago during the Copper Age and most likely died from an arrow wound. 
Now scientists are examining the bacteria in his stomach to learn about the movement of ancient peoples. The bacterium is Heliobacter pylori or H. pylori and its found in twothirds of humans. 
Every now and then things go right incredibly right In an experimental treatment of leukemia patients with just a few months to live nearly all went into remission. Thats out of patients which means the success rate is a whopping which is unheard of in cancer treatment. These patients had ALL or acute lymphoblastic leukemia also known as acute lymphocytic leukemia or acute lymphoid leukemia. 
In these cancers the immune cells produced in the bone marrow mutate and take over spreading into lymph nodes and the spleen. Both progress quickly becoming fatal within a few months and are usually treated with chemotherapy and stem cell transplants. But the new treatment in the study used a different approach.
From fungus to falling spacecraft James Williams finds the top coolest science videos from September .
See how magnets are used to generate power in this video from Planet Greens G Word series.
Far beyond Earth in the endless expanses of space mysterious objects are hiding. Learn more about black holes quasars and dark matter in this clip from the Science Channels Space School.
The Storm Chasers survey the devastation wrought by the EF tornado that hit Greensburg Kansas. Witness the impact of natures fury in this video from the Discovery Channel.
Learn how dams are built using diversion tunnels in this clip from Discovery Channels Extreme Engineering.
The more mass a star or planet has the more steeply it bends spacetime around it. Learn more about spacetime on Discovery Channels Assignment Discovery.
In their quest to increase the efficiency of wind turbines researchers incorporate the shape of the hump backed whales tubercles in their turbine design. Check out this clip from Planet Greens G Word to learn more about wind turbines.
The Invention Nation Team checks out a system to transform sound waves into refrigeration. Watch this video from the Science Channels Invention Nation.
Did NASA ever conduct sex experiments in space Is it even possible to have sex in space Find out in this humorous video from the Discovery Channels Spaced Out.
On Discovery Channels How Do They Do It watch how a captain steers his large container ship into the harbor.
When college student Andy Miller returns to his parents ranch in Arizona he is confronted by the possible existence of a terrifying creature of Native American legend the skinwalker. Watch this video from Animal Planets Lost Tapes.
Steel workers are building a new bridge in Charleston South Carolina. Learn about the new engineering feats and design in this clip from Extreme Engineering on Discovery Channel.
This tank didnt arrive in time to battle the Panzer in war but managed to fight around the world afterwards. Check out this video to learn more about the worlds top ten tanks.
How can a Toyota Tundra with a pound towing capacity pull a pound space shuttle Scott Benjamin of CarStuff delves into the physics at play during the space shuttles final journey to the California Science Center in Los Angeles.
After Will Hayden receives a surprise visit from Jesse James he gives him a chance to shoot many guns from the Red Jacket collection in the range.
Just when Will and his team thought it was another day at the shop they receive a surprise visit from Jesse James.
The Red Jacket crew works on building an aluminum Browning automatic rifle for Jesse James. During the build Jesse James gives Flem a quick lesson in welding.
Will Hayden runs his Red Jacket crew including Vince through the plans to customize a BAR for Jesse James.
A rare gun collector brings in a German Schmeisser MP a variation of the first infantry submachine introduced at the end of World War I.
By marijuana had become legal or decriminalized in states. But will it ever become legal Join Cristen Conger of Stuff Mom Never Told You as she explains the controversy surrounding marijuana and how this may or may not change in the future.
In the Square Wheels Aftershow Adam and Jamie discuss the worth of square wheels the difficulty they faced with steering and a squarewheeled motorcycle.
Kari Grant and Tory answer fan questions in the aftershow for the Bird Balance and Fireworks Man myths including their thoughts on destroying a limo and strange bird calls.
Adam and Jamie respond to fan questions related to the water heater cannon and excavator myths including how what theyd do differently and what they will test next.
In this episode of the Mythbusters Aftershow Kari Grant an Tory talk about the Ballistics Barrel myth reminding fans that failure is always an option.
The sparks fly and the forklifts groan as Tory Kari and Grant connect two cars in preparation for the tandemdriving myth seen in the movie Date Night.
Lionfish are beautiful in aquariums but they are a menace in the waters of the western Atlantic. Armed with venom and a reproductive ability that lets a single fish produce million eggs each year the fishhave managed to establish themselves in ocean waters from Florida to South America and throughout much of the.
A new type of fallout forensics can reconstruct nuclear blasts decades after detonation. By measuring the relative abundance of various elements in debris left over from nuclear explosions researchers say they can accurately estimate the amount of energy released during the initial blast.
As proof of concept the researchers estimated the yield of the Trinity nuclear test in New.
Homo naledi currently the bestknown and most mysterious fossil species in the human genus may be considerably younger than previously thought a new investigation suggests.
Evolutionary trees of ancient hominids statistically reconstructed from skull and tooth measurements indicate that H. naledi.
More clues about where to search for a possible ninth planet lurking in the fringes of our solar system are emerging from the Kuiper belt the icy debris field beyond Neptune. And new calculations suggest that the putative planet might be brighter and a bit easier to find than once thought.
Evidence for the existence of Planet Nine is scant based on apparent alignments among the.
After nearly five years and . billion kilometers in space NASAs Juno probe a mission to investigate Jupiters deep interior has safely arrived at the giant planet.
Juno will spend the next months orbiting Jupiter figuring out how much water vapor hides beneath the clouds.
Mars misshapen moons Phobos and Deimos might be all thats left of a larger family that arose in the wake of a giant impact with the Red Planetbillions of years ago researchers report online July in Nature Geoscience.
The origin of the two moons has never been clear they could be captured asteroids or.
Feeling good may help the body fight germs experiments on mice suggest. When activated nerve cells that help signal reward also boost the mices immune systems scientists report July in Nature Medicine. The study links positive feelings to a supercharged immune system results that may partially explain the placebo effect.
AUSTIN TEXAS Taking advantage of malaria strains battling each other could let doctors treat patients without encouraging more drug resistance a lab test in mice suggests.
Without drugs malaria parasites with no resistance to a medicine often can outcompete any pockets of drugresistant parasites among them Nina Wale of the University of Michigan pointed out June.
In Colorados Rocky Mountains male and female valerian plants have responded differently to hotter drier conditions a new study shows. Rapidly changing ratios of the sexes could be a quick sign of climate change the researchers say.
Valerian Valeriana edulis plants range from hot scrubby lowlands to cold alpine slopes. In each patch of plants some are male and some are.
We couldnt be more excited about being this close to Jupiters doorstep said Diane Brown Juno program executive at NASA Headquarters in Washington D.C. during a June news briefing.
th Grade Science. All rights reserved. Design by cmix.com. Powered by concrete CMS. Login.
The NASAESA Hubble Space Telescope has imaged an ancient and faint dwarf galaxy called LEDA .LEDA also known as HIDEEP J lies roughly . million lightyears away and spans lightyears.It is a member of the Centaurus AMessier Group a complex group of galaxies in the constellations.
A team of astronomers from the UK is exploring what might be described as the first astronomical observing tool potentially used by humans around BC.The view towards the east from the Carregal do Sal megalithic cluster at dawn at the end of April around BC as reconstructed using a Digital Elevation Model and Stellarium. Aldebaran the last star to rise before the Sun is rising directly.
A nearly millionyearold bird fossil unearthed in Wyoming represents a new species that is a close relative of living kiwis ostriches and emus according to a team of paleontologists from the American Museum of Natural History and the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.Calciavis grandei stands by the shores of the Eocene fossil lake in Wyoming roughly million years ago.
Venom is so useful to fish that it evolved at least times according to a new study led by Dr. William Leo Smith of the University of Kansas Biodiversity Institute.In the study which appeared in the journal Integrative and Comparative Biology Dr. Smith and coauthors found.
Physicists on CERNs LHCb collaboration say theyve observed three new exotic particles X X and X and also confirmed the existence of a fourth one X. According to the scientists each of these particles contains two quarks and two antiquarks.
Superbug bacteria affect two million people and kill at least Americans every year.A regular bacterium bug becomes a superbug by resisting a round or more of antibiotics which causes the bug to proliferate.The more antibiotics that are taken by a patient the more chances the bacteria have to.
The genome of Neanderthals contained harmful gene variants that made them around percent less reproductively fit than modern humans. And nonAfricans inherited some of this genetic burden when they interbred with our extinct cousins say genetic researchers.
Small pieces of the mineral opal have been found within a brecciated ureilite meteorite from Antarctica. According to a team of scientists led by Prof. Hilary Downes of Birkbeck College London UK this find demonstrates that meteorites delivered water ice to asteroids the early Solar System.A falsecolor image of the narrow opal rim surrounding a bright metallic mineral inclusion in the Antarctic.
A serious problem in the Turing test a test posited by the famed British mathematician and computer scientist Alan Turing which if passed would prove that machines could think is exposed in a study conducted by Prof. Kevin Warwick and Dr. Huma Shah of Coventry University UK.
Well either way our local outer space ecosystem just got two times more interesting with this second moon around. Learn more about our new neighbor in our full video on this discovery.
The NASAESA Hubble Space Telescope has imaged an ancient and faint dwarf galaxy called LEDA .LEDA also known as HIDEEP J lies roughly . million lightyears away and spans lightyears.It is a member of the Centaurus AMessier Group a complex group of galaxies in the constellations.
A team of astronomers from the UK is exploring what might be described as the first astronomical observing tool potentially used by humans around BC.The view towards the east from the Carregal do Sal megalithic cluster at dawn at the end of April around BC as reconstructed using a Digital Elevation Model and Stellarium. Aldebaran the last star to rise before the Sun is rising directly.
A nearly millionyearold bird fossil unearthed in Wyoming represents a new species that is a close relative of living kiwis ostriches and emus according to a team of paleontologists from the American Museum of Natural History and the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.Calciavis grandei stands by the shores of the Eocene fossil lake in Wyoming roughly million years ago.
Venom is so useful to fish that it evolved at least times according to a new study led by Dr. William Leo Smith of the University of Kansas Biodiversity Institute.In the study which appeared in the journal Integrative and Comparative Biology Dr. Smith and coauthors found.
Physicists on CERNs LHCb collaboration say theyve observed three new exotic particles X X and X and also confirmed the existence of a fourth one X. According to the scientists each of these particles contains two quarks and two antiquarks.
Superbug bacteria affect two million people and kill at least Americans every year.A regular bacterium bug becomes a superbug by resisting a round or more of antibiotics which causes the bug to proliferate.The more antibiotics that are taken by a patient the more chances the bacteria have to.
The genome of Neanderthals contained harmful gene variants that made them around percent less reproductively fit than modern humans. And nonAfricans inherited some of this genetic burden when they interbred with our extinct cousins say genetic researchers.
Small pieces of the mineral opal have been found within a brecciated ureilite meteorite from Antarctica. According to a team of scientists led by Prof. Hilary Downes of Birkbeck College London UK this find demonstrates that meteorites delivered water ice to asteroids the early Solar System.A falsecolor image of the narrow opal rim surrounding a bright metallic mineral inclusion in the Antarctic.
A serious problem in the Turing test a test posited by the famed British mathematician and computer scientist Alan Turing which if passed would prove that machines could think is exposed in a study conducted by Prof. Kevin Warwick and Dr. Huma Shah of Coventry University UK.
Last update A new kind of black hole once a theory now firmly within observers sight hour ago
Early life forms on Earth are likely to have mutated and evolved at much higher rates than they do today suggests a new analysis from researchers at the University of North Carolina.
Phys.orgA team of researchers working at South Koreas National Institute of Science and Technology has found a way to make building flexible pressure sensors easierby mimicking the suction cups on octopuss tentacles. .
Researchers at MITs research center in Singapore have developed a new microfluidic device that tests the effects of electric fields on cancer cells. They observed that a range of lowintensity middlefrequency electric .
A collaborative effort by cancer researchers at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory CSHL and chemists at Boehringer Ingelheim BI a pharmaceutical firm has resulted in the identification of a new drug target in leukemia and .
Phys.orgA team of researchers with affiliations to several universities in the U.S. has found evidence that suggests that cosmic rays striking balls of ice floating around in interstellar clouds can cause the formation .
Mimicking nature is not easy but new insights by researchers at the Department of Energys Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Berkeley Lab could help create a viable artificial system of photosynthesis.
Place this thin layer of plastic in the sun and it begins to oscillate irregularly all by itself. Today researchers from Eindhoven University of Technology TUe and the Humboldt University in Berlin present this material .
In creating fuels from agricultural waste and other biomass water slows a solid acid catalysts ability to get the job done costing time and energy. But scientists didnt know how the adverse reactions occurred. A team .
Laser printouts on paper might be used as a platform for lowcost organic electronics microfluidic or sensor applications. German scientists at Humboldt University Berlin have now developed a procedure for the selective .
At feet above Melbourne three scientists wait anxiously for the signal to jump their arms crossed protectively across their chests a modified plastic syringe in each hand the plane engines and wind roaring around .
Scientists from the University of York have developed an innovative new green method of capturing carbon dioxide CO emissions from power stations chemical and other large scale manufacturing plants.
Detecting pesticides and nerve gas in very low concentrations. An international team of researchers led by Ivo Stassen and Rob Ameloot from KU Leuven Belgium have made it possible.
Researchers at MIT are making fluorescent polymer gels that change color when theyre shaken heated exposed to acid or otherwise disrupted. Given such a response these novel materials could be effective sensors for detecting .
UC Berkeley engineer Phillip Messersmith is happy to be learning lessons from a lowly mollusk with the expectation that the knowledge gained will enable him and fellow physicians to prevent deaths among their youngest patientsthose .
MIT researchers have developed lowcost chemical sensors made from chemically altered carbon nanotubes that enable smartphones or other wireless devices to detect trace amounts of toxic gases.
Washington State University researchers have developed a unique multifunctional smart material that can change shape from heat or light and assemble and disassemble itself. They have filed a provisional patent on the work.
University of Pennsylvania engineers have developed a rapid lowcost genetic test for the Zika virus. The testing device about the size of a soda can does not require electricity or technical expertise to use. A patient .
What if testing yourself for cancer or other diseases were as easy as testing your blood sugar or taking a home pregnancy test In a few years it might be.
A team of scientists from the University of Alberta is examining compounds with antiprion properties which can alter the misfolding of proteins in rare but universally fatal prion diseases like Mad Cow and CreutzfeldJakob. .
Phys.orgA team of researchers at IBMs Research facility in Almaden San Jose the same site where Watson was developed has developed a onestep process for recycling polycarbonates into another type of plasticone .
A hydrogenfuel economy could finally become a reality with the recent discovery of a cheap stable and efficient means of getting hydrogen from water.
Forget mousetrapstodays scientists will get the cheese if they manage to build a better battery.
Scientists have created an ironbased ring structure that could be used for new applications in electronics and sensing.
The enzyme sirtuin or SIRT serves many key biological functions in regulating genome stability DNA repair metabolism and longevity but how its multiple enzyme activities relate to its various functions is poorly understood.
Deep inside the electronic devices that proliferate in our world from cell phones to solar cells layer upon layer of almost unimaginably small transistors and delicate circuitry shuttle allimportant electrons back and .
Phys.orgLast year researchers at George Washington University proposed a method for transforming CO emissions into carbon nanotubes CNTs. When applied to power plants the technology could completely eliminate the .
Cytochrome P is a wellknown family of enzymes that are involved in drug metabolism. The active site contains a heme chemical structure in which an iron atom is bound to the heme cofactor within the enzyme. The oxidation .
A recent study led by Xi Chen associate professor of earth and environmental engineering at Columbia Engineering and Klaus Lackner at Arizona State University reports an unconventional reversible chemical reaction in a .
Phys.orgChiral molecules can be found in chemically equivalent lefthanded L and righthanded D mirrorimage forms each commonly referred to as an enantiomer. Synthetic sugars and other chiral molecules made in .
If you leave a cube of JellO on the kitchen counter eventually its water will evaporate leaving behind a shrunken hardened masshardly an appetizing confection. The same is true for hydrogels. Made mostly of water .
Phys.orgA combined team of researchers from the Australian National University and City University of Hong Kong has created a material that is capable of mimicking the action of a mimosa leaflet when it is touched. In .
What goes on inside the brain when we learn new things Much still remains wrapped in mystery but scientists have found a way to examine this at the molecular level.
Phys.orgA combined team of researchers from the Chinese Academy of Sciences and University of California has found a way to degrade ordinary plastics in a way that allows for fuel to be created from plastic trash. In .
To keep greenhouse gas carbon dioxide from entering the environment it must be stored or even better used as a raw material. The first step in such processes is the efficient separation of CO from exhaust leaving power .
A Stanford University research lab has developed new technologies to tackle two of the worlds biggest energy challenges clean fuel for transportation and gridscale energy storage.
Phys.orgAmericans consume billion eggs per year and while some of the eggshell waste is used for fertilizer or dietary supplements the majority of these eggshells are thrown away. In a new study researchers at .
In a dimly lit room next to a supersonic jet engine test rig three Stanford engineering graduate students sat around a whiskey bottle.
A future with hydrogen fuelcell vehicles and hydrogenpowered smartphones is much closer to reality.
Scientists at the University of Bristol have developed a new kind of bioink which could eventually allow the production of complex tissues for surgical implants.
Phys.orgResearchers at Stanford University have fabricated a stretchable colorchanging pressuresensitive materialbasically the closest thing yet to an artificial chameleon skin. Touching the new electronic skin .
Phys.orgOne thing that all chemical reactions have in commonwhether they are the reactions that take place inside a battery the metabolic reactions inside a living organism or the combustion reactions that cause .
Astronomers Aaron Smith and Volker Bromm of The University of Texas at Austin working with Avi Loeb of the HarvardSmithsonian Center for Astrophysics have discovered evidence for an unusual kind of black hole born extremely .
For decades nuclear physicists have tried to learn more about which elements or their various isotopes are magic.
Air pollutants interact with and break down plantemitted scent molecules which insect pollinators use to locate needed food according to a team of researchers led by Penn State. The pollutionmodified plant odors can .
A recent drought completely shut down the Amazon Basins carbon sink by killing trees and slowing their growth a groundbreaking study led by researchers at the Universities of Exeter and Leeds has found. Previous research .
Phys.orgLocated some light years away the brown dwarf designated WISEP J.. or W for short turns out to be a source of radio emission. According to a research paper published July this substellar .
What motivates people to contribute to trustful moral judgment which is a public good yet tends to be costly This is the moral free rider problem. Mathematician Tatsuya Sasaki from University of Vienna and colleagues .
Researchers at MIT and elsewhere have developed a new combination of methods that can provide detailed information about the microstructure of polycrystalline metals.
The angular resolution of a telescope is the smallest angle between two objects that still can be resolved as separate things in a telescope with high angular resolution those objects can be very close together and yet .
A longstanding debate on the colonisation process of Oceania has been put to rest with new research finding Polynesia was deliberately settled in one of the greatest maritime migrations in human history.
Birds have a very successful history and rich fossil record that includes dinosaurs and dates back to million years. They are famous for flying and singing and have complex ways of doing both. It is known that these two .
Google on Wednesday announced a deal to buy Moodstocks a French startup behind technology that helps smartphones recognize whatever they are aimed at.
University of Utah mathematicians showed it is theoretically possible to design ideal climbing ropes to safely slow falling rock and mountain climbers like brakes decelerate a car. They hope someone develops a material to .
Researchers in the Cockrell School of Engineering at The University of Texas at Austin have been able to quantify fundamental physical limitations on the performance of cloaking devices a technology that allows objects to .
Goats have the capacity to communicate with people like other domesticated animals such as dogs and horses according to scientists from Queen Mary University of London QMUL.
If conditions had been just a little different an eon ago there might be plentiful life on Venus and none on Earth.
New research has found that green turtles hatching en masse from their nests swamp predators allowing more individuals to reach the safety of the sea.
More than years ago a protoglobalization process started in the Indian Ocean one of the outcomes being a great human migration of African and Asian peoples spreading across the Indian Ocean to inhabit the fourth .
A microbial partnership thriving in an acidic hot spring in Yellowstone National Park has surrendered some of its lifestyle secrets to researchers at the Department of Energys Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
Graphene has emerged as one of the most promising twodimensional crystals but the future of electronics may include two other nanomaterials according to a new study by researchers at the University of California Riverside .
Exceedingly wellpreserved bird fossil specimens dating million years represent a new species that is a previously unknown relative of the modernday ostrich according to a new paper coauthored by Sterling Nesbitt of .
Phys.orgAs the saying goes no two fingerprints are alike and the same is true for quantum fingerprints. Just as a human fingerprint is only a fraction of the size of a person yet can be used to distinguish between .
Phys.orgA team of researchers at Cornell University has built and run a simulation that showed prebiotic reactions could possibly occur on the surface of one of Saturns moons Titan suggesting the possibility of life .
Phys.orgA pair of researchers one with the Columbia Astrobiology Center in New York the other with the University of Glasgow in the U.K. has come up with a mathematical equation that when solved is meant to offer a .
The first U.S. fatality using selfdriving technology took place in May when the driver of a Tesla S sports car operating the vehicles Autopilot automated driving system died after a collision with a truck in Florida .
A NASAfunded research team led by Mihaly Horanyi at the University of ColoradoBoulder CUBolder has conducted laboratory experiments to bring closure to a longstanding issue of electrostatic dust transport explaining .
A new reconstruction of Antarctic ocean temperatures around the time the dinosaurs disappeared million years ago supports the idea that one of the planets biggest mass extinctions was due to the combined effects of volcanic .
Lungpenetrating dust from coalfired power plants in the European Union claims some lives a year and racks up tens of billions of euros in health costs an NGO report said Tuesday.
New model shows that reducing fossil fuel emissions and improving adaptation efforts may reduce heatrelated deaths in New York City.
Discovery GO is a single app that lets you watch a live stream full episodes and specials from Discovery Channel TLC Animal Planet Investigation Discovery Science Channel Destination America American Heroes Channel Discovery Life and Velocity in wherever you are on your smartphone or tablet.
Watch new episodes in Discovery GO the morning after they air on TV. Binge on episodes from past seasons and rediscover some of your favorite specials.
Stay connected to your favorite shows with Discovery GO. Watch a live stream of any of our nine networks whenever or wherever you want on your smartphone tablet or computer. Catchup on episodes the day after they air on TV. Or binge watch a whole season of a favorite series. Learn More
Copyright Discovery Communications LLC. The Worlds Nonfiction Media Company.
Well either way our local outer space ecosystem just got two times more interesting with this second moon around. Learn more about our new neighbor in our full video on this discovery.
It permeates everyday life. Yet the understanding of advances in biomedical science is limited at best. Few people make the connection that biomedical science is medicine and that biomedical scientists are working today for the medicine of tomorrow. Our weekly fivehundred word newspaper column and twominute radio show provide insights into a broad range of biomedical science topics. Medical Discovery News is dedicated to explaining discoveries in biomedical research and their promise for the future of medicine.
Each release is designed to stimulate listeners to think question and appreciate how science affects their health as well as that of the rest of the world. We also delve into significant biomedical discoveries and portray how science or the lack of it has impacted health throughout history.
A mummified iceman found thirty five years ago in the Italian Alps continues to talk to us from the dead. Dubbed Otzi by scientists the man lived five thousand years ago during the Copper Age and most likely died from an arrow wound. 
Now scientists are examining the bacteria in his stomach to learn about the movement of ancient peoples. The bacterium is Heliobacter pylori or H. pylori and its found in twothirds of humans. 
Every now and then things go right incredibly right In an experimental treatment of leukemia patients with just a few months to live nearly all went into remission. Thats out of patients which means the success rate is a whopping which is unheard of in cancer treatment. These patients had ALL or acute lymphoblastic leukemia also known as acute lymphocytic leukemia or acute lymphoid leukemia. 
In these cancers the immune cells produced in the bone marrow mutate and take over spreading into lymph nodes and the spleen. Both progress quickly becoming fatal within a few months and are usually treated with chemotherapy and stem cell transplants. But the new treatment in the study used a different approach.
JOHANNESBURG Scientists in South Africa working at Moropeng the site located just outside of Johannesburg and known as the Cradle of Humankind have discovered a mass underground grave containing the remains of hundreds of individuals from what they say is an entirely new species of the human family.
I give you a new species of human homo naledi said Professor Lee Berger head of the paleontology team at University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg and leader of the discovery team.
The species brains were a third of the size of todays humans but they stood like us and had similar feet and hands although their fingers were elegantly curved. This new speciesBerger said should be placed as an early humanoid just before the time of homo sapiens. The species could date back as far as . million years according to experts.
South Africas deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa told Fox News Thursday that history books will have to be rewritten due to the discovery which was made in a subterranean chamber by a team of socalled underground astronauts. The archaeologists have come across fossils entire families of hundreds of early humans.
The discovery of these fossils believed by scientists to possibly be the largest group of individuals in fossil form ever found in one place anywhere in the world was made in . When the team of astronauts was put together only small and thin scientists were encouraged to apply. Archaeologists had to squeeze through a inch wide gap between underground rocks dubbed Supermans Crawl and go through a succession of caves before finally making a vertical yard drop to get into the nownamed Dinaledi Chamber. At the entrance they found fossils and in the chamber itself some fossilized bones. After two years of keeping the discovery secret the search is ongoing.
This photo provided by National Geographic from their October issue shows a composite skeleton of Homo naledi surrounded by some of the hundreds of other fossil elements recovered from the Rising Star cave in South Africa. Robert ClarkNational Geographic Lee BergerUniversity of the Witwatersrand via AP 
A National Geographic staffer said the magazine was first alerted to the discovery in the U.S. by a late night phone call from Berger.
On the normally excitable scale of Professor Berger of to this was an the staffer said.
Passwordprotected live video feeds of the fossil recovery were beamed from the cave to scientists throughout the globe. Access to the cave was so difficult and the fossils so delicate that amateur climbers were brought in to help. Once on the surface a team of scientists from around the world was assembled to examine the fossils. Among them were specialists in new hitech analysis techniques.
The fossils will be on view to the public at Maropeng for one month beginning Sept. before more work on them is undertaken.
Research on these finds will continue for decades to come Berger said. This is an entire anatomy of a new species that connects to early members of our genus.
Most of the fossils were found in a squarefoot section of the Dinaledi Chamber. Bergers team does not believe it was the result of a catastrophe and officials do not believe the individuals lived in the cave or even together.
This is a new species of human that deliberately disposed of bodies in this chamber Berger said adding that the bodies appear to have been dropped from above down a chute formed by rocks which forms the entrance to the chamber. Up until now Berger adds it was thought that homo sapiens were the firstbeings to choose to dispose of their dead.
Now with Homo Naledi we have evidence of the worlds first burial site he said.
Not everybody agreed that the discovery revealed a new species. Tim White of the University of California Berkeley told The Associated Press the claim is questionable.
From what is presented here the fossils belong to a primitive Homo erectus a species named in the s he said.
This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed. FOX News Network LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed minutes. Privacy Terms FAQ
FALLOUT FORENSICS A new technique allowed researchers to accurately estimate the energy release from the Trinity nuclear test in New Mexico shown. The method could help regulators enforce nonproliferation treaties the researchers say.
TWO TALES Immune cells taken from mice that had their brains reward systems activated right killed more E. coli than immune cells taken from control mice left. 
SOLAR SYSTEM SEARCH Researchers are trying to pin down where to find a hypothetical ninth planet in the solar system illustrated.
YOUNG SKULLS A new statistical analysis of skulls and teeth suggests that a recently discovered South African hominid dubbed Homo naledi lived around years ago. Thats roughly million years later than estimated by other researchers. H. naledi skulls shown here were included in the new study.
After episodes experiments myths and explosions Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman will say goodbye to the show .
Get up close and personal with some of the creepiest creatures on earth snakes.
Follow four brave teams of expert snake hunters who have the guts and skills to chase down the worlds most poisonous snakes and collect their venom.
All good things must come to an end. But before the final season of MYTHBUSTERS is shown heres a look at the BEST OF MYTHBUSTERS.
Discovery Channel turns the spotlight on China with a weekly hour special showcasing the vast countrys wildlife technological wonders architectural .
Motor mastermind Richard Rawlings and mechanical prodigy Aaron Kaufman of Gas Monkey Garage search for derelict classic cars. 
Marc Priestley is crossing the planet to put his F skills to the test to prove he can turn any vehicle any where into a winner
Join the HOW ITS MADE crew as they visit the birthplaces of your favorite cars revealing their inner workings and gorgeous exteriors with access to .
RAILROAD ALASKA follows the elite crew of workers as they battle ferocious weather and treacherous terrain to keep the State of Alaskas critical .
Welcome to Tanana Alaska a village on the very edge of civilization less than miles from the Arctic Circle.
Watching us from space satellites orbit the Earth at miles an hour capturing images of our world that are breathtaking and sometimes bizarre. 
Discovery Education and M are excited to announce that the top national finalists have been chosen in the awardwinning Young Scientist Challenge Each of the finalists will now go on to compete for the grand prize of and the title of Americas Top Young Scientist at Ms World Headquarters this October. In addition to the finalists state merit winners were chosen based on their creativity scientific knowledge persuasiveness and overall presentation demonstrated.
Thats the hallmark of Discovery Education Techbook. Standardsbased with content that is relevant and dynamic Techbook helps teachers differentiate and improve achievement with easytouse tools and resources.
Discovery Education accelerates school districts digital transition through comprehensive standardsbased content professional development formative assessment and community engagement proven to positively impact student achievement.
A digital textbook series built from scratch for todays learners and current standards engages students with dynamic multimodal content and an inquiry approach. Employing the latest techniques in formative learning data and motivation Techbook includes robust professional development to ensure success with digital transition.
Now introducing Math Techbook the latest in breakthrough digital textbooks from Discovery Education.
A groundbreaking crosscurricular resource designed to simultaneously engage students and provide educators with instructional support to implement the Common Core State Standards. Thousands of learning objects tools and assessment activities encourage student content creation critical thinking and collaboration.
Teacher approved researchbased professional development that supports educators in utilizing digital resources and proven instructional practices to enhance student learning.
A global community of education professionals that are passionate about transforming the learning experience with digital media the Discovery Educator Network connects members across town and around the world through social media virtual conferences and inperson events.
Discovery Education partners with likeminded organizations around the world to create a broad range of free classroom and family learning resources that complement and extend learning beyond the bell.
Discovery Educations Engagement Programs deliver dynamic tools and experiences in traditionally underfunded areas such as STEM financial literacy environmental education health wellness life skills and college workforce readiness.
Discovery News ran a photo feature yesterday January courtesy Mike Lockhart from Polar Bears International of an interesting incident Lockhart witnessed while was working with a government Manitoba Conservation research team surveying bears of Western Hudson Bay in the fall of .
Figure . Female with cubs turns on an adult male far left that she had been happily feeding with moments before. This is the rd photo in the sequence see description and photo below. Mike Lockhart photo Polar Bears International Discovery News story.
Comments Off on Polar bear female with cubs fights off adult male photos from W HudsonBay
Tagged adult male Discovery News female with cubs fight over kill Lockhart photos polar bears Polar Bears International survey western hudson bay 
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
FALLOUT FORENSICS A new technique allowed researchers to accurately estimate the energy release from the Trinity nuclear test in New Mexico shown. The method could help regulators enforce nonproliferation treaties the researchers say.
TWO TALES Immune cells taken from mice that had their brains reward systems activated right killed more E. coli than immune cells taken from control mice left. 
SOLAR SYSTEM SEARCH Researchers are trying to pin down where to find a hypothetical ninth planet in the solar system illustrated.
YOUNG SKULLS A new statistical analysis of skulls and teeth suggests that a recently discovered South African hominid dubbed Homo naledi lived around years ago. Thats roughly million years later than estimated by other researchers. H. naledi skulls shown here were included in the new study.
In this video James Williams shows you Discovery News five favorite September science videos. Topics range from a fungus spore shooter to a Martian sunrise.
See how magnets are used to generate power in this video from Planet Greens G Word series.
Far beyond Earth in the endless expanses of space mysterious objects are hiding. Learn more about black holes quasars and dark matter in this clip from the Science Channels Space School.
The Storm Chasers survey the devastation wrought by the EF tornado that hit Greensburg Kansas. Witness the impact of natures fury in this video from the Discovery Channel.
Learn how dams are built using diversion tunnels in this clip from Discovery Channels Extreme Engineering.
The more mass a star or planet has the more steeply it bends spacetime around it. Learn more about spacetime on Discovery Channels Assignment Discovery.
In their quest to increase the efficiency of wind turbines researchers incorporate the shape of the hump backed whales tubercles in their turbine design. Check out this clip from Planet Greens G Word to learn more about wind turbines.
The Invention Nation Team checks out a system to transform sound waves into refrigeration. Watch this video from the Science Channels Invention Nation.
Did NASA ever conduct sex experiments in space Is it even possible to have sex in space Find out in this humorous video from the Discovery Channels Spaced Out.
On Discovery Channels How Do They Do It watch how a captain steers his large container ship into the harbor.
When college student Andy Miller returns to his parents ranch in Arizona he is confronted by the possible existence of a terrifying creature of Native American legend the skinwalker. Watch this video from Animal Planets Lost Tapes.
Steel workers are building a new bridge in Charleston South Carolina. Learn about the new engineering feats and design in this clip from Extreme Engineering on Discovery Channel.
This tank didnt arrive in time to battle the Panzer in war but managed to fight around the world afterwards. Check out this video to learn more about the worlds top ten tanks.
How can a Toyota Tundra with a pound towing capacity pull a pound space shuttle Scott Benjamin of CarStuff delves into the physics at play during the space shuttles final journey to the California Science Center in Los Angeles.
After Will Hayden receives a surprise visit from Jesse James he gives him a chance to shoot many guns from the Red Jacket collection in the range.
Just when Will and his team thought it was another day at the shop they receive a surprise visit from Jesse James.
The Red Jacket crew works on building an aluminum Browning automatic rifle for Jesse James. During the build Jesse James gives Flem a quick lesson in welding.
Will Hayden runs his Red Jacket crew including Vince through the plans to customize a BAR for Jesse James.
A rare gun collector brings in a German Schmeisser MP a variation of the first infantry submachine introduced at the end of World War I.
By marijuana had become legal or decriminalized in states. But will it ever become legal Join Cristen Conger of Stuff Mom Never Told You as she explains the controversy surrounding marijuana and how this may or may not change in the future.
In the Square Wheels Aftershow Adam and Jamie discuss the worth of square wheels the difficulty they faced with steering and a squarewheeled motorcycle.
Kari Grant and Tory answer fan questions in the aftershow for the Bird Balance and Fireworks Man myths including their thoughts on destroying a limo and strange bird calls.
Adam and Jamie respond to fan questions related to the water heater cannon and excavator myths including how what theyd do differently and what they will test next.
In this episode of the Mythbusters Aftershow Kari Grant an Tory talk about the Ballistics Barrel myth reminding fans that failure is always an option.
The sparks fly and the forklifts groan as Tory Kari and Grant connect two cars in preparation for the tandemdriving myth seen in the movie Date Night.
Evolution News and Views ENV provides original reporting and analysis about the debate over intelligent design and evolution including breaking news about scientific research.
It shouldnt come as a surprise that the large news outlets with an internet presence CNN.com MSNBC etc. have pared back certain types of news coverage in favor of more popular stories. Its much more likely youll see a headline about Jon plus eight minus Kate before youll see a headline about plastic solar cells rolling out into unlit villages in Zambia. How about the discovery of a year old Persian army that was thought to have vanished
Well thats exactly the kind of news that Discovery News is set to bring you. Focusing on the scientific and technological stories Discovery News is a fresh news outlet brought to us by our friends at Discovery.com.
Previously a feature within Discovery Channels website the new Discovery News reports on the science that matters to everyday life in addition to covering news of the spectacular from cuttingedge medicine and renewable energy to nanotechnology and flying cars.
Uptotheminute breaking news in Earth Space Tech Animals Dinosaurs Archaeology Human and History categories An easytonavigate multimedia experience featuring video photos articles and blogs Dedicated topic hubs featuring experts in the fields of Space Technology and Earth Weekly Wide Angles indepth features on current scitech topics and Regular contributors from HowStuffWorks.com an awardwinning credible online resource that provides easytounderstand information and explanation for thousands of topics.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our user agreement effective and privacy policy effective . Affiliate link policy. Your California privacy rights. The material on this site may not be reproduced distributed transmitted cached or otherwise used except with the prior written permission of Cond Nast.
Discovery GO is a single app that lets you watch a live stream full episodes and specials from Discovery Channel TLC Animal Planet Investigation Discovery Science Channel Destination America American Heroes Channel Discovery Life and Velocity in wherever you are on your smartphone or tablet.
Watch new episodes in Discovery GO the morning after they air on TV. Binge on episodes from past seasons and rediscover some of your favorite specials.
Stay connected to your favorite shows with Discovery GO. Watch a live stream of any of our nine networks whenever or wherever you want on your smartphone tablet or computer. Catchup on episodes the day after they air on TV. Or binge watch a whole season of a favorite series. Learn More
Copyright Discovery Communications LLC. The Worlds Nonfiction Media Company.
In the Chatterjea laboratory we study the intersection of allergies and pain. Although these pathologies are connected the mechanisms that connect them are poorly understood. I hoped to shed some light on these pathways by studying the interactions between immune cells and molecules that regulate nerve growth in allergic lesions.
To do this I barcoded immune cells by labeling them with fluorescent tags.Then I analyzed their expression using flow cytometry. Hopefully someday our research will be used to design novel therapies for chronic debilitating pain conditions.
My science classes and professors here at Mac have prepared me extremely well for this research. Prior to entering Professor Chatterjeas lab I worked with Professor Sarah Boyer another Macalester biology professor organizing microscopic crustaceans from the nearby St. Croix River into species groups based on genetic markers.
My science classesusually with fewer than students per classhave prepared me well for the conceptual areas of my research. Professor Chatterjeas Research in Immunology course a seminartype class with intensive journaling and laboratory training opened my eyes to the vast world of science and the scientific publishing community.
I am grateful to have been awarded a Beckman Scholarship to support my research. This generous award will allow me an extended time to complete my research and I hope publish the results in an immunology journal with my colleagues. The award also provides critical support for lab supplies and travel to scientific conventions. I plan to attend the American Association of Immunologists annual meeting in New Orleans in with support from the Beckman Foundation and the Macalester Science and Research Office. This Beckman Fellowship will help me achieve my goal of one day becoming a physicianresearcher.
Macalesters location in the Twin Cities has greatly benefitted my research. Our lab group regularly collaborates with graduate students and research professors at the University of Minnesota to learn new research techniques use equipment and share research ideas. Throughout this summer I was surprised to find I enjoy optimizing difficult and occasionally frustrating procedures just as much as obtaining highquality data. I began to understand and love science as a process of discovery and not just a set of results.
A dozen lucky Mac students are learning about campaigning firsthand during an election year.
Through radio Jon Riddle aims to build community and reduce the digital divide in St. Pauls Frogtown neighborhood.
For her American studies capstone Selena Pruitt watched Keeping Up with the Kardashians to uncover insights into the best and worst of American culture.
English professor Benjamin Voigts class takes an unconventional approach to environmental literature.
In her onewoman show Julia Gay explores the love and the loss of being born Chinese and growing up in the West.
Students explore transit policy and urban planningin the classroom and on two wheels.
A capstone mathematical analysis of Game of Thrones grabbed worldwide attention.
Macalesters Class of is off to make their mark in the world. Heres where some of them are headed.
For incoming students the firstyear course combines a traditional class with a special focus on adjusting to life at Mac.
No living conditions are too tough for visiting scholar Stephanie Farmer as she races to learn the dying tongues of the Amazon.
Groundbreaking research on baby dinosaur bones tells us about the early life of giant sauropods who walked the earth million years ago.
Copyright Popular Science. A Bonnier Corporation Company. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.
In the Chatterjea laboratory we study the intersection of allergies and pain. Although these pathologies are connected the mechanisms that connect them are poorly understood. I hoped to shed some light on these pathways by studying the interactions between immune cells and molecules that regulate nerve growth in allergic lesions.
To do this I barcoded immune cells by labeling them with fluorescent tags.Then I analyzed their expression using flow cytometry. Hopefully someday our research will be used to design novel therapies for chronic debilitating pain conditions.
My science classes and professors here at Mac have prepared me extremely well for this research. Prior to entering Professor Chatterjeas lab I worked with Professor Sarah Boyer another Macalester biology professor organizing microscopic crustaceans from the nearby St. Croix River into species groups based on genetic markers.
My science classesusually with fewer than students per classhave prepared me well for the conceptual areas of my research. Professor Chatterjeas Research in Immunology course a seminartype class with intensive journaling and laboratory training opened my eyes to the vast world of science and the scientific publishing community.
I am grateful to have been awarded a Beckman Scholarship to support my research. This generous award will allow me an extended time to complete my research and I hope publish the results in an immunology journal with my colleagues. The award also provides critical support for lab supplies and travel to scientific conventions. I plan to attend the American Association of Immunologists annual meeting in New Orleans in with support from the Beckman Foundation and the Macalester Science and Research Office. This Beckman Fellowship will help me achieve my goal of one day becoming a physicianresearcher.
Macalesters location in the Twin Cities has greatly benefitted my research. Our lab group regularly collaborates with graduate students and research professors at the University of Minnesota to learn new research techniques use equipment and share research ideas. Throughout this summer I was surprised to find I enjoy optimizing difficult and occasionally frustrating procedures just as much as obtaining highquality data. I began to understand and love science as a process of discovery and not just a set of results.
A dozen lucky Mac students are learning about campaigning firsthand during an election year.
Through radio Jon Riddle aims to build community and reduce the digital divide in St. Pauls Frogtown neighborhood.
For her American studies capstone Selena Pruitt watched Keeping Up with the Kardashians to uncover insights into the best and worst of American culture.
English professor Benjamin Voigts class takes an unconventional approach to environmental literature.
In her onewoman show Julia Gay explores the love and the loss of being born Chinese and growing up in the West.
Students explore transit policy and urban planningin the classroom and on two wheels.
A capstone mathematical analysis of Game of Thrones grabbed worldwide attention.
Macalesters Class of is off to make their mark in the world. Heres where some of them are headed.
For incoming students the firstyear course combines a traditional class with a special focus on adjusting to life at Mac.
No living conditions are too tough for visiting scholar Stephanie Farmer as she races to learn the dying tongues of the Amazon.
Groundbreaking research on baby dinosaur bones tells us about the early life of giant sauropods who walked the earth million years ago.
It has long been known that monkeys convey information through alarm calls but now a combined team of linguists and primatologists has laid the groundwork for a systematic primatelinguistics.
QUT evolutionary biologist Dr Matthew Phillips used molecular dating from DNA sequences to challenge the dominant scientific theory that placental mammals diversified million years before dinosaurs becameextinct.
Mimicking nature is not easy but new insights by researchers at the Department of Energys Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Berkeley Lab could help create a viable artificial system ofphotosynthesis.
Early life forms on Earth are likely to have mutated and evolved at much higher rates than they do today suggests a new analysis from researchers at the University of NorthCarolina.
A volcano erupting on a small island in the Sub Antarctic is depositing ash over one of the worlds largest penguincolonies.
If conditions had been just a little different an eon ago there might be plentiful life on Venus and none onEarth.
MRC Technology MRCT a medical research charity and AstraZeneca a global biopharmaceutical company are launching an initiative to find new epigenetic drug targets in respiratory disease. MRCT and AstraZeneca are now seeking academics with relevant epigenetics targets to collaborate with them to develop novel treatments for respiratory diseases which affect millions of people every year.
The topic of this months newsletter from Drug Discovery Today is Cancer.
By Steve Carney. Since Ive been the Editor of Drug Discovery Today I have made the conscious effort to include articles of interest to medicinal chemists in the Pharmaceutical and Biotech industries. Not least because Medicinal Chemists make up still a very significant proportion of the Pharma discovery community but also because their efforts produce the lifeblood of the Pharma pipelines although marginally less now with the advent and success of biological therapies.
Much has already been written about the potential effects of Brexit on both the British economy as well as the rest of the word visvis effects on immigration employment wages inflation investment growth and so forth and by now we know that either the sky is going to fall or it will be like manna falling from the sky. Definitely one of those two. Reality however is a bit more nuanced and what follows may be sector specific and depend on the regulations and terms that are negotiated upon exit. 
Some of the most deadly environmental toxins including dioxins could soon be a thing of the past thanks to the joint efforts of a Welsh scientist and partners in Syria and France.
CANCER RESEARCH UK scientists are developing a bubbly drink packed with oxygen microbubbles to make treatments more potent for hard to treat tumours like pancreatic cancer.
Researchers from The University of Adelaide in South Australia found that a specific peptide in the spider venom could be used to understand how people sense pain.
Cell biologists most notorious approach to detect and semiquantify proteins western blotting could well be on its way down. Professor Sven Eyckerman VIBUGent and colleagues developed a set of universal protein tags that warrant protein quantification via targeted proteomics techniques. The development and applications of these new tags named Proteotypic peptides for Quantification by SRM PQS are described in the online open access journal Scientific Reports.
In this video James Williams shows you Discovery News five favorite September science videos. Topics range from a fungus spore shooter to a Martian sunrise.
See how magnets are used to generate power in this video from Planet Greens G Word series.
Far beyond Earth in the endless expanses of space mysterious objects are hiding. Learn more about black holes quasars and dark matter in this clip from the Science Channels Space School.
The Storm Chasers survey the devastation wrought by the EF tornado that hit Greensburg Kansas. Witness the impact of natures fury in this video from the Discovery Channel.
Learn how dams are built using diversion tunnels in this clip from Discovery Channels Extreme Engineering.
The more mass a star or planet has the more steeply it bends spacetime around it. Learn more about spacetime on Discovery Channels Assignment Discovery.
In their quest to increase the efficiency of wind turbines researchers incorporate the shape of the hump backed whales tubercles in their turbine design. Check out this clip from Planet Greens G Word to learn more about wind turbines.
The Invention Nation Team checks out a system to transform sound waves into refrigeration. Watch this video from the Science Channels Invention Nation.
Did NASA ever conduct sex experiments in space Is it even possible to have sex in space Find out in this humorous video from the Discovery Channels Spaced Out.
On Discovery Channels How Do They Do It watch how a captain steers his large container ship into the harbor.
When college student Andy Miller returns to his parents ranch in Arizona he is confronted by the possible existence of a terrifying creature of Native American legend the skinwalker. Watch this video from Animal Planets Lost Tapes.
Steel workers are building a new bridge in Charleston South Carolina. Learn about the new engineering feats and design in this clip from Extreme Engineering on Discovery Channel.
This tank didnt arrive in time to battle the Panzer in war but managed to fight around the world afterwards. Check out this video to learn more about the worlds top ten tanks.
How can a Toyota Tundra with a pound towing capacity pull a pound space shuttle Scott Benjamin of CarStuff delves into the physics at play during the space shuttles final journey to the California Science Center in Los Angeles.
After Will Hayden receives a surprise visit from Jesse James he gives him a chance to shoot many guns from the Red Jacket collection in the range.
Just when Will and his team thought it was another day at the shop they receive a surprise visit from Jesse James.
The Red Jacket crew works on building an aluminum Browning automatic rifle for Jesse James. During the build Jesse James gives Flem a quick lesson in welding.
Will Hayden runs his Red Jacket crew including Vince through the plans to customize a BAR for Jesse James.
A rare gun collector brings in a German Schmeisser MP a variation of the first infantry submachine introduced at the end of World War I.
By marijuana had become legal or decriminalized in states. But will it ever become legal Join Cristen Conger of Stuff Mom Never Told You as she explains the controversy surrounding marijuana and how this may or may not change in the future.
In the Square Wheels Aftershow Adam and Jamie discuss the worth of square wheels the difficulty they faced with steering and a squarewheeled motorcycle.
Kari Grant and Tory answer fan questions in the aftershow for the Bird Balance and Fireworks Man myths including their thoughts on destroying a limo and strange bird calls.
Adam and Jamie respond to fan questions related to the water heater cannon and excavator myths including how what theyd do differently and what they will test next.
In this episode of the Mythbusters Aftershow Kari Grant an Tory talk about the Ballistics Barrel myth reminding fans that failure is always an option.
The sparks fly and the forklifts groan as Tory Kari and Grant connect two cars in preparation for the tandemdriving myth seen in the movie Date Night.
Now that the Juno spacecraft is settled in orbit around Jupiter the real work is about to begin
No criminal investigation is planned after a worker at a federal laboratory in Colorado was accused of intentionally manipulating test results potentially tainting research on energy and toxic chemicals
A rare herd of ghostly white deer that multiplied at a World War II weapons depot under protection of the U.S. Army is now being nurtured by the depots new owner
A NASA spacecraft is the latest visitor to Jupiter the largest planet in the solar system
After a fiveyear journey Juno arrives at the largest planet in the solar system.
After a fiveyear journey NASAs Juno spacecraft arrives at the largest planet in the solar system
A solarpowered spacecraft is circling Jupiter on a mission to map the giant planet from the inside out
Ski fields are struggling to open and winter electricity consumption is down in New Zealand after the first six months of proved to be the hottest start to a year that scientists have ever recorded
Since launching in NASAs Juno spacecraft has been cruising toward the biggest planet in the solar system
The reeking carcass of a dead humpback whale was towed back out to sea some hours after washing up at a popular Los Angeles County beach Friday as Fourth of July weekend crowds began arriving
Investigators say a laboratory explosion at the University of Hawaii that resulted in a researcher losing her arm was likely caused by static electricity
Investigators say a laboratory explosion at the University of Hawaii that resulted in a researcher losing her arm was likely caused by static electricity
Investigators say a worker at a federal laboratory in Colorado manipulated test results for years possibly tainting research that includes toxic metals in the Everglades and uranium near the Grand Canyon
Researchers are developing a oneofakind camera to mount on great white sharks in an effort to discover why the fish travel each year to a spot in the Pacific Ocean nicknamed the White Shark Cafe.
Spanish police say they have arrested an American woman who had been threatening to kill famed British physicist Stephen Hawking while in Spain for an astronomy conference
Torrential rains in northern India have triggered heavy floods and landslides that poured down hills in Uttarakhand state killing at least people by Friday and destroying dozens of homes
Scientists are studying whether growing seaweed in marine waters can ease the local effects of ocean acidification
Washington states Department of Agriculture says it found traces of undisclosed pesticides in more than half of the marijuanagrowing fertilizers and other products it tested recently
Jupiter takes center stage with the arrival next week of a NASA spacecraft after a fiveyear trip.
The Mass Media Registration Certificate EL No. FS of November .
A wall of debris stretching about miles km may be the remnants of a natural disaster that struck Mexicos Caribbean coast more than years ago in an area where tourists now flock to beach resorts and ancient Maya ruins. A huge tsunami is the likely culprit propelling 
People in the hamlet of Santa Ursula began to worry when the logging started. In a few short weeks more than a mile of densely forested riverbank was stripped from the Arroyo Sal to make way for heavy dredging equipment. Work was just beginning in late on an ambitious 
A gasfilled balloon copiloted by an American and a Russian touched down safely in the waters off Mexico on Saturday completing a weeklong transPacific flight that unofficially broke two world records a spokeswoman said. The balloon carrying Troy Bradley of Albuquerque New Mexico and his Russian copilot Leonid Tiukhtyaev landed 
The LIV Fertility Center in Puerto Vallartaintroduces an exceedingly innovative and affordable gender selection program adding to its allembracing fertility services. With its leading IVF and donor programs technologically advanced fertility clinic and exclusive IVFFET warranty LIV has already made the future of reproductive medicine a reality. When asked 
Last year the Monarchs covered only . acres . hectares the smallest area since recordkeeping began in . This year the butterflies rebounded to cover . acres . hectares according to a formal census by Mexican environmental authorities and scientists released Tuesday. The orangeandblack butterflies are suffering from loss of 
This February a new observatory will be installed to monitor activity at the Colima Volcano around the clock. Monitoring the volcano will require the installation of GPS systems cameras and seismic measuring networks from CUCosta in Puerto Vallarta and Ciudad Guzman being linked together along with a joint 
More Monarch butterflies appear to have made the long flight from the U.S. and Canada to their winter nesting ground in western Mexico raising hopes after their number dropped to a record low last year. But experts still fear that unusual cold temperatures will threaten the orange and black insects. 
The plan would compensate fishermen for stopping the use of nets that often sweep up the tiny porpoises along with their catch. Recent reports suggest there are fewer than of the shy elusive porpoises left in the Sea of Cortez which is also known as the Gulf of California. 
Mexico is implementing a measure to encourage national researchers who are working abroad to return to Mexico and prevent the countrys brain drain. The Program for the Retention and Return sponsored by MexicosNational Council of Science and Technology Conacyt has invested more than million pesos more than US 
The official beginning of the whale watching season has begun in Puerto Vallarta even though the whales have been arriving earlier each year for several years now. With the season running from December March the race is on for applicants who wish to offer whale watching tours 
Mexicos federal civil defense office said Friday that ash has fallen on towns as far as miles kilometers from the peak which is also known as the Volcano of Fire. Glowing hot rock tumbled down the volcanos flanks over a mile kilometers from the crater. The office 
A U.S. Embassy statement says the zoo will begin raising the birds for eventual release into the wild. The goal is for Mexico to take over all aspects of breeding and reintroduction in the country. The raptors once ranged from Canada to Mexico but nearly became extinct in the s. 
A sevenmillionyearold human skull has been found in the African republic of Chad. 
Christened Touma which means hope of life in the local Goran language the find is said to be the most important fossil discovery in living memory.
It is twice the age of previously found apeman skulls making it the earliest known relic of recognisably human lineage.
Last July a French team led by Poitiers University palaeontolgists Michel Brunet and Patrick Vignaud were excavating in sandstone beneath the sands of the Djurb Desert. 
They unearthed six specimens including a cranium jaw and teeth. Assembled Toumas skull displays a mix of primitive and modern features. His braincase looks like that of an ape but his short face and teeth are similar to those of humans. His prominent brow is of a shape found only in our Homo line.
The theory is that Touma lived on the perimeter of Lake Chad before the central African land became desert. 
It is the first skull find from a critical time in human evolution between million years ago when there were only apes and fivemillion years ago when evidence suggests early human ancestors or hominids appeared.
Bernard Wood of George Washington University WashingtonDC wrote in Nature that although Touma is not a missing link it does suggest a diversity of apemen lived even sixto sevenmillion years ago.
Indeed the discovery strengthens the argument that humans did not evolve in a linear progression from apes that roamed the planet million years ago. Rather our lineage sprouted in many directions the socalled bushy model before we evolved as Homo erectus and then modern humans Homo sapiens.
According to Australian National University anthropologist DrAlan Thorne the Chad discovery is important because it pushes things back a few million years. 
From this and previous discoveries of things like teeth and a few femurs. its clear that there were upright people six to sevenmillion years ago he said.
Professor Colin Groves from the Australian National Universitys Department of Archaeology and Anthropology was equally enthusiastic about the discovery but less convinced the skull is human.
He places Touma at the point in evolution before humans and chimpanzees diverged believed to be around fivemillion years ago. One reason for doubt is Toumas small canine teeth.
We have precedence for short canines in other things besides humans such as the creature Graecopithecus which is said to be an early protogorilla.
By clicking Send to a friend you agree ABC Online is not responsible for the content contained in your email message.
Love to learn Like us on Facebook for more smart memes
Copyright document.writenew Date.getFullYear Beacon Solutions Inc. All Rights Reserved.
We already know that men are pigs but now we also know that men are the kind of pigs who corrupt the morality of dogs. And how do we know this Well scientists have discovered it and the media are Read More 
Last week the news agency Agence FrancePresse AFP issued a press release with the title Rightwing candidates are better looking says study. The item described a study conducted by Swedish and Finnish economists in which nonFinns rated Finnish Read More 
Transhumanists just held their Augmented World Expo in San Jose and the Transhumanist Party even has a presidential candidate. But what does it mean to be a transhumanist and how will we know when we transcend to a higher human form
In this Birth Day clip a condition of preeclampsia causes the doctor and patient to change their original plan on a completely natural childbirth.
In Vienna childbed fever caused death among many pregnant patients. Consequently Dr. Ignaz Semmelweis began an experiment where his doctors washed their hands. Learn more about this experiment on the Science Channels Greatest Discoveries.
After being pulled out of his home by a tornado a man lands in a nearby field with no significant injuries. The strength of his bones protected him. Bones resiliency is discussed in this Discovery Channel video.
After the recovery of Kasey Edwards arm from the belly of an aggressive alligator doctors work to reattach it on this clip from Disocvery Channels I Was Bitten.
During the summer air conditioners are a part of most everyones life. Find out how they work in this HowStuffWorks video.
Dr. Lydie Hazan offers tips to get you started on the National Body Challenge. Learn more about fitness in this video from Discovery.
The cars of the future are expected to be equipped with safety sensors that make driving even safer. Learn more about this technology on Discovery Channels Future Car.
A man who called himself Count von Cosel kept a terrible secret for years and now its part of a museum. Plus some frankly pedestrian advice on how to achieve good sleep.
Engineers are testing an experimental train that floats on a magnetic field called Maglev for magnetic levitation. Learn more about this speedy vehicle on Discovery Channels series Extreme Engineering.
Microsoft has teamed up with researchers in the Netherlands to generate a new Dprinted Rembrandt painting. Plus an important update to the AP style guide.
It turns out bats are way more clever than we might have given them credit for. Plus theres a lot of weird stuff on the U.S. one dollar bill.
Transhumanists just held their Augmented World Expo in San Jose and the Transhumanist Party even has a presidential candidate. But what does it mean to be a transhumanist and how will we know when we transcend to a higher human form
Colorism is a form of skin prejudice that exists all around the world. Learn more about colorism in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Josh and Chuck discuss the implications of humans reproducing on a colonized Mars then talk about an absurd Texas bill that would have required criminals to notify their victims in advance or face additional charges.
Public wifi can be an enormously convenient thing it helps people dodge data charges in coffee shops airports and other places around the globe. But how safe is it Tune in to learn more.
Recently Aaron Chervenak married his smartphone at the Little Las Vegas Chapel. It may have just been a symbolic gesture for him but objectum sexuality people who fall in love with objects is a real thing.
Bayard Rustin was an important figure in the American Civil Rights Movement. Learn more about Bayard Rustin in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Scientists from India and the UK are collaborating on the largest study of Indias monsoon season and the results could improve the lives of over one billion people.
From Microsofts epic Tay chatbot debacle to Googles romancenovelraised A.I. we look at some of the recent successes and failures in getting machines to talk.
Jealousy in relationships can be healthy and natural or possessive and even abusive. Learn more about jealousy in this video from Stuff Mom Never Told You.
Theres always a little shampoo left in the bottle and now scientists have a way to make sure you get to soap up with each and every last drop.
Learn the science of climate and energy through the creative process of staging a musical performance. 
We invite HS students to explore the world of infographic design as a creative means of presenting large amounts of data about current issues. 
Launch headfirst into the Maker Movement by designing creating tinkering and engineering your way through a variety of different projects 
Experience nursing school before you graduate from high school This weeklong program is a wonderful opportunity for anyone called to this field. 
Summer camp registration continues Camps run May August . Many camps have spots remaining so get registered soon.
Were celebrating all things STEM with our new blog Full STEM Ahead Increase STEM awareness by sharing your favorite posts via Facebook and Twitter.
Summer camp registration continues Get registered today for Summer Camps. AfterSchool Homeschool and DayOff classes are still in full swing Click the Search Classes button to get started.
MRC Technology MRCT a medical research charity and AstraZeneca a global biopharmaceutical company are launching an initiative to find new epigenetic drug targets in respiratory disease. MRCT and AstraZeneca are now seeking academics with relevant epigenetics targets to collaborate with them to develop novel treatments for respiratory diseases which affect millions of people every year.
The topic of this months newsletter from Drug Discovery Today is Cancer.
By Steve Carney. Since Ive been the Editor of Drug Discovery Today I have made the conscious effort to include articles of interest to medicinal chemists in the Pharmaceutical and Biotech industries. Not least because Medicinal Chemists make up still a very significant proportion of the Pharma discovery community but also because their efforts produce the lifeblood of the Pharma pipelines although marginally less now with the advent and success of biological therapies.
Much has already been written about the potential effects of Brexit on both the British economy as well as the rest of the word visvis effects on immigration employment wages inflation investment growth and so forth and by now we know that either the sky is going to fall or it will be like manna falling from the sky. Definitely one of those two. Reality however is a bit more nuanced and what follows may be sector specific and depend on the regulations and terms that are negotiated upon exit. 
Some of the most deadly environmental toxins including dioxins could soon be a thing of the past thanks to the joint efforts of a Welsh scientist and partners in Syria and France.
CANCER RESEARCH UK scientists are developing a bubbly drink packed with oxygen microbubbles to make treatments more potent for hard to treat tumours like pancreatic cancer.
Researchers from The University of Adelaide in South Australia found that a specific peptide in the spider venom could be used to understand how people sense pain.
Cell biologists most notorious approach to detect and semiquantify proteins western blotting could well be on its way down. Professor Sven Eyckerman VIBUGent and colleagues developed a set of universal protein tags that warrant protein quantification via targeted proteomics techniques. The development and applications of these new tags named Proteotypic peptides for Quantification by SRM PQS are described in the online open access journal Scientific Reports.
Science Techbook helps teachers transform their instruction with a simpletouse highly interactive program that integrates multimedia resources including video audio text and interactives. Handson activities virtual labs and technologyenhanced formative assessment provide a rich and engaging learning experience for students. Science Techbook works on any device and can be implemented in a variety of instructional settings.
Students evaluate the MythBusters methods as they test different home remedies for keeping Christmas trees healthy and green.
We develop deeprooted partnerships with districts in order to build a foundation of student success and proof of impact. Rock Hill Schools in South Carolina implemented the Discovery Education Science Techbook across grades K specifically to increase students and teachers proficiency in the use of technology and increase the use of inquirybased STEM instruction. After one year of implementation in Rock Hill Schools fourth grade students whose teachers used Discovery Education Science Techbook scored higher on average on the Science PASS than students whose teachers did not use Science Techbook. Read the full research study.
In Collier County Public Schools in Florida the use of Science Techbook was a proven factor in increased FCAT scores. Read more here.
Teachers can access model lessons videos interactive tools and activities handson labs a scientific glossary and formative and summative assessments all in one place.
Discovery Educations application of the E instructional model Engage Explore Explain Elaborate Evaluate is what makes Science Techbook unique. Using an inquirybased format along with the interactive investigations Science Techbook balances critical thinking and problem solving with disciplinary literacy and analytical writing skills that students need as they progress through their science courses general education and beyond.
The Core Interactive Text feature blends text with multimedia resources to appeal to students of different learning styles and abilities. Students can have the text read aloud highlight text or add sticky notes. Text can also be modified for different reading levels viewed in Spanish or printed as necessary. 
Our most popular studentcentric feature Board Builder promotes independent learning by challenging students to be content producers. With Board Builder students create virtual project boards using multimedia and text to synthesize their thinking and provide evidence of their understanding of a concept or problem. Boards can be shared with the teacher classmates parents and even with classrooms across the country. 
ETA HandMind is the exclusive provider of materials kits suitable for use with our Elementary and Middle Grades Series. Find Out More 
It has been exciting to watch our teachers and students use Science Techbook in their classroomsthe change that is taking place not only brings a powerful digital resource into the classroom but embraces a method of teaching that allows our teachers to become facilitators of knowledge.
Discovery Education sets the bar very high. I have been teaching a handson activity based science curriculum for nineteen years. The Discovery Education Science Techbook has combined concept content interactivity and digital. In my opinion it is the best curriculum package available. I consider it is the missing link. Combine all that with fantastic professional development and customer service and Discovery Education is the whole package.
As astronomers track down more clues as to the existence of a large world orbiting the sun in the outer fringes of the solar system a classic planetary purveyor of doom has been resurrected.
According to science reporter Ian ONeill the Planet X hypothesis has made another comebackthis time its not the punchline of a bad doomsday joke its based on observations of the strange nature of objects in the outer solar system.
Caltech astronomers Mike Brown and Konstantin Batygin believe a huge planetary object more than times the mass and size of the Earth and up to times the sunEarth distance may be causing space debris in the Kuiper Belt to enter the inner solar system creating a major threat potential to the planet Earth. Brown and Batygin say the Earth has experienced species extinctions every million years caused by a barrage of comets flung at Earth by the gravitational instability triggered by the eccentric orbit of a major planetary body like Planet . Whether this catastrophic event is the fault of the asyet unseen Planet or some other body further out is unknown. Brown says there is something out there beyond the dwarf planet Pluto and the Kuiper Belt that has flooded the inner solar system with damaging debris. All of this reminds me of the book Worlds In Collision by the controversial scientist Immanuel Velikovsky. Velikovsky said a large object penetrated the inner solar system eons ago creating both the conditions for life and the instrument of its destruction. While the book was widely condemned in the s Velikovsky may have hit upon the truth although his arguments remain unproven.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
The idea of using a single time zone for the entire world turns up every now and then. The latest version of this commendable but nonpragmatic idea comes from Johns Hopkins University Economics professor Steve Hanke and his colleague astrophysicist Richard Henry.
Both professors believe the world would be more efficient and productive if everyone set their clocks to Coordinated Universal Time UTC the system used by the scientific community.
A series of international conferences over a century ago established precisely delineated lines based on sunlight properties. However during the past years or so these lines have evolved into separate time zones some with offsets ranging between and minutes.
Hanke and Henry contend this mishmash of time zones creates confusion in financial markets shipping schedules and travel plans.
For the latest science and technology news please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
Not content with informing us that God does not exist or that we could be wiped out by an alien invasion the British physics superstar has now gone on the record to say humanity will score the mother of all own goals in the future.
Hawking contends that even if we manage to avoid destroying ourselves a space disaster that could cripple the Earth is long overdue and could happen in the next thousand to ten thousand years.
For now humanity has a thin sliver of time to work out the logistics and survival strategies necessary to leave the planet before we destroy it or see it ended by a meteor storm or some other calamity.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
Remembering David Bowie who has died at age from odd Ziggy Stardust to the rock icon he became. 
Perhaps this is not a real science or technology story. Its rather a tribute to an eccentric British singer composer and entertainer who did much to bring attention to early space programs with his iconic Major Tom song. UK astronaut Tim Peake on board the International Space Station paid tribute to Bowie in a special tweet from Earth orbit.
Bowie was immensely talented having recreated himself numerous times and in the process changing the course of music in the latter half of the th century. He starred in several films including The Man who fell to Earth Merry Christmas Mr. Lawrence and cameo roles in a Twin Peaks episode on television.
Bowie had a tender human side as well. His stunning duet with the late Bing Crosby on a Christmas television special more than years ago is a true classictender respectful and heartfelt. I will never hear The Little Drummer Boy quite the same since that performance.
As Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars he shocked outraged rand poked fun at our culture mores and politics.
Perhaps Bowie didnt intend to promote science and space but he did fire up our imagination and warned us of the uncertainties and unlimited possibilities of space travel.
Author Kieran Mulvaney has done an excellent job of encapsulating the career of a truly extraordinary mana riddle within a riddleDavid Bowie.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
North Korea says it has successfully tested a miniature hydrogen bomb if confirmed the country would be among a small group with such dangerous weapons.
If claims of a North Korean Hydrogen Bomb detonation are true then the heavilyarmed reclusive Northeast Asian country will soon belong to the socalled Nuclear Club of nations that have fission ABomb and Fusion HBomb capability. Should those claims be true then countries such as the Peoples Republic of China Japan the United States and perhaps the Russian Federation will find themselves in a diplomatic bind. Basically how do you bell the cat or close Pandoras Box after the fact
The author of this article has found another reason to fear North Koreas march to the HBomb horizon. This comes in the form of Enhanced Radiation Warheads that are smaller than conventional H or A Bombs and can be used on a variety of missile platforms including ICBMs that can reach much of the Pacific Rim and the western United States. ERWs are fairly cheap to produce and can be launched from missiles or even field artillery. ERWs are based on the principle of the HBomb fussion but are designed to generate more radiation than blast energy making them good weapons against armored or mechanized units as well as urban areas. These warheads will kill or incapacitate crews and urban populations while leaving buildings equipment and infrastructure relatively free of damage.
If North Korea perfects Enhanced Radiation weapons it would give the inwardlooking regime an effective way to intimidate its neighbors.
In the past North Korea has used threats broken promises and other criminal activity to bully nations into supporting the despotic regime with food fuel and industrial goods. Whether North Korea will resort to this timetested tactic is unknown but what is known is that North Korea is full of unexpected surprises some of them quite deadly. This will not be a quiet year in North Asia.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are update regularly.
Tonight the sun will be directly overhead at . degrees south latitude and the Earths axial tilt will be as far from the sun as possible.
Tim Wall does an excellent job of describing the scientific cultural historical and religious traditions behind the Winter Solsticethe time when no other night is as long and no day shorter.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
Artistic portrayals of Jesus have seemingly come to a consensus though his image has changed over the centuries.
This is not the Jesus we got to know through Western Art. Based on the latest forensic techniques using a yearold Jewish skull ancient documents and stateoftheart technology the real historical Jesus may have looked like this reconstruction.
James Charlesworth a professor of New Testament languages at Princeton University says Jesus certainly looks far more like that person than me and others who live in the West.
People define religious figures such as Jesus in terms of their own culture. Check out the depictions of Jesus and his disciples in Byzantine Russian Italian and Coptic Christian art and you will see physical features common to people of that culture.
Perhaps we should worry less about the physical appearance of Jesus and more about his message to our world especially at this time of year.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
For the past years researchers have tried to link certain health problems such as diabetes heart disease and breast cancer to the excess weight that many of us carry around our mid section. Now a report authored by Dr. Francisco LopezJimenez states that the extra fat along your waistline may increase your risk of mortality more than that of your obese peers.
The study shows that excess abdominal fat often labeled as central obesity is linked with adverse health outcomes diabetes cardiovascular disease and breast cancer.
Dr. LopezJimenez says that the health effects of an expanding waistline can be reduced by a program of resistive exercise a diet low in fats sugars and carbohydrates and an improved weighttohipratio. The study also revealed that of the U.S. population may be suffering central obesity without even knowing it.
Dr. LopezJimenez wants doctors and hospitals to test patients for central obesity before serious health problems develop. A cautionary tale for all of us. Eat smart and stay alive.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly. You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
At least students at a Colorado high school were found trading nude pictures and posting them on social media.
No one should be surprised by the use of technology for sexual gratification curiosity and even exploitation. Sexting is some form has been going on for years. This scandal seems worse than it is because the humiliation embarrassment and bullying are happening to our own children. Thats got to hurt.
In addition to the current Colorado sexting law there are also privacy and confidentiality issues involved. Perhaps the school administration should have held a general school assembly in the beginning of the academic year to explain the law to students and to clarify how digital devices could be used in school. In theory that may have served as a warning for some of the more daring or adventurous students.
The real issue moral standards notwithstanding is what happens to those pictures once they go online. Students should have been told beforehand that employers the government and the military can access email and instagram accounts for investigative or reference purposes. A suggestive photo taken a few years earlier may come to haunt job seekers in the future. Once a picture or personal data enter cyberspace they never really disappear. Former NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden showed us that fact not so long ago. The real tragedy here is not that a few sexually suggestive photos were shared but rather that these photos can be used against students in the future. Blackmail and embarrassment can really hamper your lifestyle.
Its also incumbent on us adults to clean up our act. Our children expect us to be examples of decent behavior not undercover sexual voyeurs. If we cant fly straight why do we expect our children to be morally pure and socially responsible If we cant run our own lives why impose that standard on our kids
One commenter on this article argued that our double standard of do as I say not as I do has gotten us into a lot of social and moral trouble. Perhaps our traditional Puritanism and moral rigidity have run their course. We no longer live in a world of accepted standards. Moral relativism is ascendant and our children know and accept this. This is a sad pill for parents to swallow but thats the reality of living in an age that respects virtually nothing except immediate gratification. If we live long enough that behavioral choice eventually loses out to common sense social responsibility and political accountability. The sad result of this amoral age is that many of our children will fall by the wayside by making bad choicesthe same illadvised options that now doom many adults. The only difference is that these kids wont know what hit them until its too late.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly. You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
I thought it appropriate to offer this bit of Halloween history for those of us curious about the origin of the Halloween pumpkin. It appears the practice of carving out a large turnip or pumpkin was the result of a failed pact between the Devil and a th century Irish drunk named Stringy Jack. A fanciful and intriguing tale.
When those little neighborhood spooks and goblins come home from their trick or treating adventure please inspect all candy and collected treats. There have been reports in Hawaii that some fruit rolls have been laced with THCthe active ingrediant in marijuana. A few children have had bad reactions to the drug and have ended up in the hospital.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated daily.
You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Retired News director of Pacific Radio Group Radio Stations on Hawaiithe Big Island. I have more than years of broadcast experience including positons at KTUHFM UHManoa KPOIFM Honolulu. KHLOAM Hilo KKBGFM KBIGFMHiloKona KAPAFM HiloKona. NativeFM HiloKona and ESPN Hawaii HiloKona. Former University of HawaiiHilo librarian. Retired Air Force Officer. Amatuer Ham Radio operator since currently holds the Amateur Extra Class License from the FCC.. Can read write and speak Russian. Retired on September but still maintain a Hawaii Island News Blog.
Now that the Juno spacecraft is settled in orbit around Jupiter the real work is about to begin
No criminal investigation is planned after a worker at a federal laboratory in Colorado was accused of intentionally manipulating test results potentially tainting research on energy and toxic chemicals
A rare herd of ghostly white deer that multiplied at a World War II weapons depot under protection of the U.S. Army is now being nurtured by the depots new owner
A NASA spacecraft is the latest visitor to Jupiter the largest planet in the solar system
After a fiveyear journey Juno arrives at the largest planet in the solar system.
After a fiveyear journey NASAs Juno spacecraft arrives at the largest planet in the solar system
A solarpowered spacecraft is circling Jupiter on a mission to map the giant planet from the inside out
Ski fields are struggling to open and winter electricity consumption is down in New Zealand after the first six months of proved to be the hottest start to a year that scientists have ever recorded
Since launching in NASAs Juno spacecraft has been cruising toward the biggest planet in the solar system
The reeking carcass of a dead humpback whale was towed back out to sea some hours after washing up at a popular Los Angeles County beach Friday as Fourth of July weekend crowds began arriving
Investigators say a laboratory explosion at the University of Hawaii that resulted in a researcher losing her arm was likely caused by static electricity
Investigators say a laboratory explosion at the University of Hawaii that resulted in a researcher losing her arm was likely caused by static electricity
Investigators say a worker at a federal laboratory in Colorado manipulated test results for years possibly tainting research that includes toxic metals in the Everglades and uranium near the Grand Canyon
Researchers are developing a oneofakind camera to mount on great white sharks in an effort to discover why the fish travel each year to a spot in the Pacific Ocean nicknamed the White Shark Cafe.
Spanish police say they have arrested an American woman who had been threatening to kill famed British physicist Stephen Hawking while in Spain for an astronomy conference
Torrential rains in northern India have triggered heavy floods and landslides that poured down hills in Uttarakhand state killing at least people by Friday and destroying dozens of homes
Scientists are studying whether growing seaweed in marine waters can ease the local effects of ocean acidification
Washington states Department of Agriculture says it found traces of undisclosed pesticides in more than half of the marijuanagrowing fertilizers and other products it tested recently
Jupiter takes center stage with the arrival next week of a NASA spacecraft after a fiveyear trip.
I remember a Seattle Weekly article circa around the time that I was hired as Executive Directorthat described Discovery Institute as a think tank where people sit around a big table and think really hard. Needless to say the article was neither friendly nor indicative of the role that think tanks really play in policy development. It missed a bigger point too. Discovery Institute is more than a think tank. Read more
As astronomers track down more clues as to the existence of a large world orbiting the sun in the outer fringes of the solar system a classic planetary purveyor of doom has been resurrected.
According to science reporter Ian ONeill the Planet X hypothesis has made another comebackthis time its not the punchline of a bad doomsday joke its based on observations of the strange nature of objects in the outer solar system.
Caltech astronomers Mike Brown and Konstantin Batygin believe a huge planetary object more than times the mass and size of the Earth and up to times the sunEarth distance may be causing space debris in the Kuiper Belt to enter the inner solar system creating a major threat potential to the planet Earth. Brown and Batygin say the Earth has experienced species extinctions every million years caused by a barrage of comets flung at Earth by the gravitational instability triggered by the eccentric orbit of a major planetary body like Planet . Whether this catastrophic event is the fault of the asyet unseen Planet or some other body further out is unknown. Brown says there is something out there beyond the dwarf planet Pluto and the Kuiper Belt that has flooded the inner solar system with damaging debris. All of this reminds me of the book Worlds In Collision by the controversial scientist Immanuel Velikovsky. Velikovsky said a large object penetrated the inner solar system eons ago creating both the conditions for life and the instrument of its destruction. While the book was widely condemned in the s Velikovsky may have hit upon the truth although his arguments remain unproven.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
The idea of using a single time zone for the entire world turns up every now and then. The latest version of this commendable but nonpragmatic idea comes from Johns Hopkins University Economics professor Steve Hanke and his colleague astrophysicist Richard Henry.
Both professors believe the world would be more efficient and productive if everyone set their clocks to Coordinated Universal Time UTC the system used by the scientific community.
A series of international conferences over a century ago established precisely delineated lines based on sunlight properties. However during the past years or so these lines have evolved into separate time zones some with offsets ranging between and minutes.
Hanke and Henry contend this mishmash of time zones creates confusion in financial markets shipping schedules and travel plans.
For the latest science and technology news please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
Not content with informing us that God does not exist or that we could be wiped out by an alien invasion the British physics superstar has now gone on the record to say humanity will score the mother of all own goals in the future.
Hawking contends that even if we manage to avoid destroying ourselves a space disaster that could cripple the Earth is long overdue and could happen in the next thousand to ten thousand years.
For now humanity has a thin sliver of time to work out the logistics and survival strategies necessary to leave the planet before we destroy it or see it ended by a meteor storm or some other calamity.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
Remembering David Bowie who has died at age from odd Ziggy Stardust to the rock icon he became. 
Perhaps this is not a real science or technology story. Its rather a tribute to an eccentric British singer composer and entertainer who did much to bring attention to early space programs with his iconic Major Tom song. UK astronaut Tim Peake on board the International Space Station paid tribute to Bowie in a special tweet from Earth orbit.
Bowie was immensely talented having recreated himself numerous times and in the process changing the course of music in the latter half of the th century. He starred in several films including The Man who fell to Earth Merry Christmas Mr. Lawrence and cameo roles in a Twin Peaks episode on television.
Bowie had a tender human side as well. His stunning duet with the late Bing Crosby on a Christmas television special more than years ago is a true classictender respectful and heartfelt. I will never hear The Little Drummer Boy quite the same since that performance.
As Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars he shocked outraged rand poked fun at our culture mores and politics.
Perhaps Bowie didnt intend to promote science and space but he did fire up our imagination and warned us of the uncertainties and unlimited possibilities of space travel.
Author Kieran Mulvaney has done an excellent job of encapsulating the career of a truly extraordinary mana riddle within a riddleDavid Bowie.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
North Korea says it has successfully tested a miniature hydrogen bomb if confirmed the country would be among a small group with such dangerous weapons.
If claims of a North Korean Hydrogen Bomb detonation are true then the heavilyarmed reclusive Northeast Asian country will soon belong to the socalled Nuclear Club of nations that have fission ABomb and Fusion HBomb capability. Should those claims be true then countries such as the Peoples Republic of China Japan the United States and perhaps the Russian Federation will find themselves in a diplomatic bind. Basically how do you bell the cat or close Pandoras Box after the fact
The author of this article has found another reason to fear North Koreas march to the HBomb horizon. This comes in the form of Enhanced Radiation Warheads that are smaller than conventional H or A Bombs and can be used on a variety of missile platforms including ICBMs that can reach much of the Pacific Rim and the western United States. ERWs are fairly cheap to produce and can be launched from missiles or even field artillery. ERWs are based on the principle of the HBomb fussion but are designed to generate more radiation than blast energy making them good weapons against armored or mechanized units as well as urban areas. These warheads will kill or incapacitate crews and urban populations while leaving buildings equipment and infrastructure relatively free of damage.
If North Korea perfects Enhanced Radiation weapons it would give the inwardlooking regime an effective way to intimidate its neighbors.
In the past North Korea has used threats broken promises and other criminal activity to bully nations into supporting the despotic regime with food fuel and industrial goods. Whether North Korea will resort to this timetested tactic is unknown but what is known is that North Korea is full of unexpected surprises some of them quite deadly. This will not be a quiet year in North Asia.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are update regularly.
Tonight the sun will be directly overhead at . degrees south latitude and the Earths axial tilt will be as far from the sun as possible.
Tim Wall does an excellent job of describing the scientific cultural historical and religious traditions behind the Winter Solsticethe time when no other night is as long and no day shorter.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
Artistic portrayals of Jesus have seemingly come to a consensus though his image has changed over the centuries.
This is not the Jesus we got to know through Western Art. Based on the latest forensic techniques using a yearold Jewish skull ancient documents and stateoftheart technology the real historical Jesus may have looked like this reconstruction.
James Charlesworth a professor of New Testament languages at Princeton University says Jesus certainly looks far more like that person than me and others who live in the West.
People define religious figures such as Jesus in terms of their own culture. Check out the depictions of Jesus and his disciples in Byzantine Russian Italian and Coptic Christian art and you will see physical features common to people of that culture.
Perhaps we should worry less about the physical appearance of Jesus and more about his message to our world especially at this time of year.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
For the past years researchers have tried to link certain health problems such as diabetes heart disease and breast cancer to the excess weight that many of us carry around our mid section. Now a report authored by Dr. Francisco LopezJimenez states that the extra fat along your waistline may increase your risk of mortality more than that of your obese peers.
The study shows that excess abdominal fat often labeled as central obesity is linked with adverse health outcomes diabetes cardiovascular disease and breast cancer.
Dr. LopezJimenez says that the health effects of an expanding waistline can be reduced by a program of resistive exercise a diet low in fats sugars and carbohydrates and an improved weighttohipratio. The study also revealed that of the U.S. population may be suffering central obesity without even knowing it.
Dr. LopezJimenez wants doctors and hospitals to test patients for central obesity before serious health problems develop. A cautionary tale for all of us. Eat smart and stay alive.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly. You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
At least students at a Colorado high school were found trading nude pictures and posting them on social media.
No one should be surprised by the use of technology for sexual gratification curiosity and even exploitation. Sexting is some form has been going on for years. This scandal seems worse than it is because the humiliation embarrassment and bullying are happening to our own children. Thats got to hurt.
In addition to the current Colorado sexting law there are also privacy and confidentiality issues involved. Perhaps the school administration should have held a general school assembly in the beginning of the academic year to explain the law to students and to clarify how digital devices could be used in school. In theory that may have served as a warning for some of the more daring or adventurous students.
The real issue moral standards notwithstanding is what happens to those pictures once they go online. Students should have been told beforehand that employers the government and the military can access email and instagram accounts for investigative or reference purposes. A suggestive photo taken a few years earlier may come to haunt job seekers in the future. Once a picture or personal data enter cyberspace they never really disappear. Former NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden showed us that fact not so long ago. The real tragedy here is not that a few sexually suggestive photos were shared but rather that these photos can be used against students in the future. Blackmail and embarrassment can really hamper your lifestyle.
Its also incumbent on us adults to clean up our act. Our children expect us to be examples of decent behavior not undercover sexual voyeurs. If we cant fly straight why do we expect our children to be morally pure and socially responsible If we cant run our own lives why impose that standard on our kids
One commenter on this article argued that our double standard of do as I say not as I do has gotten us into a lot of social and moral trouble. Perhaps our traditional Puritanism and moral rigidity have run their course. We no longer live in a world of accepted standards. Moral relativism is ascendant and our children know and accept this. This is a sad pill for parents to swallow but thats the reality of living in an age that respects virtually nothing except immediate gratification. If we live long enough that behavioral choice eventually loses out to common sense social responsibility and political accountability. The sad result of this amoral age is that many of our children will fall by the wayside by making bad choicesthe same illadvised options that now doom many adults. The only difference is that these kids wont know what hit them until its too late.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly. You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
I thought it appropriate to offer this bit of Halloween history for those of us curious about the origin of the Halloween pumpkin. It appears the practice of carving out a large turnip or pumpkin was the result of a failed pact between the Devil and a th century Irish drunk named Stringy Jack. A fanciful and intriguing tale.
When those little neighborhood spooks and goblins come home from their trick or treating adventure please inspect all candy and collected treats. There have been reports in Hawaii that some fruit rolls have been laced with THCthe active ingrediant in marijuana. A few children have had bad reactions to the drug and have ended up in the hospital.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated daily.
You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Retired News director of Pacific Radio Group Radio Stations on Hawaiithe Big Island. I have more than years of broadcast experience including positons at KTUHFM UHManoa KPOIFM Honolulu. KHLOAM Hilo KKBGFM KBIGFMHiloKona KAPAFM HiloKona. NativeFM HiloKona and ESPN Hawaii HiloKona. Former University of HawaiiHilo librarian. Retired Air Force Officer. Amatuer Ham Radio operator since currently holds the Amateur Extra Class License from the FCC.. Can read write and speak Russian. Retired on September but still maintain a Hawaii Island News Blog.
Researchers have developed systematic search methods to discover one of the worlds biggest helium gas fields associated with volcanoes in the Tanzanian Rift Valley. This is the first time that helium has been found intentionally previous finds were by accident and opens the way for further large finds. This work is reported at the Goldschmidt conference in Yokohama Japan. Helium is essential for many modern technologies such as MRI scanners in medicine nuclear energy and is used in the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. Recent years have seen worries about the overexploitation of this extremely limited finite valuable natural resource with fears that supply could not be guaranteed into the medium to longterm future. In the British Medical Association expressed concern that helium supplies may have to be regulated.
Now a team from Oxford and Durham universities jointly led by Professor Chris Ballentine and Professor Jon Gluyas has worked together with a helium exploration company Helium One Ltd to help uncover a huge helium resource in Tanzania.
The team applied methodologies used in oil exploration in their search for helium. Normally oil exploration takes into consideration a range of factors such as the rocks sourcing the oil and how the oil is released into underground reservoirs. Crucially the team found that being close to a volcano may be key as the volcanic activity acts as the releasing mechanism for helium gas.
We were able to show that volcanoes in the rift play an important role in the formation of viable helium reserves. Volcanic activity likely provides the heat necessary to release the helium accumulated in ancient crustal rocks but the location needs to be just right. If the gas traps are located too close to a given volcano they run the risk of helium being heavily diluted by volcanic gases such as carbon dioxide.
By combining our understanding of helium geochemistry with seismic images of gas trapping structures independent experts have calculated a probable resource of Billion Cubic Feet BCf in just one part of the rift valley. This is around the size of Olympic sized swimming pools with helium gas. Thats nearly seven times the total amount of helium consumed globally every year and enough to fill over . million medical MRI scanners when converted to liquid helium. While developing the technique in members of the same research group postulated significant helium resources in the Rocky Mountains. 
Now we understand the techniques we anticipate more large helium finds said Chris Ballentine This will help safeguard societys future helium needs.
A wall of debris stretching about miles km may be the remnants of a natural disaster that struck Mexicos Caribbean coast more than years ago in an area where tourists now flock to beach resorts and ancient Maya ruins. A huge tsunami is the likely culprit propelling 
People in the hamlet of Santa Ursula began to worry when the logging started. In a few short weeks more than a mile of densely forested riverbank was stripped from the Arroyo Sal to make way for heavy dredging equipment. Work was just beginning in late on an ambitious 
A gasfilled balloon copiloted by an American and a Russian touched down safely in the waters off Mexico on Saturday completing a weeklong transPacific flight that unofficially broke two world records a spokeswoman said. The balloon carrying Troy Bradley of Albuquerque New Mexico and his Russian copilot Leonid Tiukhtyaev landed 
The LIV Fertility Center in Puerto Vallartaintroduces an exceedingly innovative and affordable gender selection program adding to its allembracing fertility services. With its leading IVF and donor programs technologically advanced fertility clinic and exclusive IVFFET warranty LIV has already made the future of reproductive medicine a reality. When asked 
Last year the Monarchs covered only . acres . hectares the smallest area since recordkeeping began in . This year the butterflies rebounded to cover . acres . hectares according to a formal census by Mexican environmental authorities and scientists released Tuesday. The orangeandblack butterflies are suffering from loss of 
This February a new observatory will be installed to monitor activity at the Colima Volcano around the clock. Monitoring the volcano will require the installation of GPS systems cameras and seismic measuring networks from CUCosta in Puerto Vallarta and Ciudad Guzman being linked together along with a joint 
More Monarch butterflies appear to have made the long flight from the U.S. and Canada to their winter nesting ground in western Mexico raising hopes after their number dropped to a record low last year. But experts still fear that unusual cold temperatures will threaten the orange and black insects. 
The plan would compensate fishermen for stopping the use of nets that often sweep up the tiny porpoises along with their catch. Recent reports suggest there are fewer than of the shy elusive porpoises left in the Sea of Cortez which is also known as the Gulf of California. 
Mexico is implementing a measure to encourage national researchers who are working abroad to return to Mexico and prevent the countrys brain drain. The Program for the Retention and Return sponsored by MexicosNational Council of Science and Technology Conacyt has invested more than million pesos more than US 
The official beginning of the whale watching season has begun in Puerto Vallarta even though the whales have been arriving earlier each year for several years now. With the season running from December March the race is on for applicants who wish to offer whale watching tours 
Mexicos federal civil defense office said Friday that ash has fallen on towns as far as miles kilometers from the peak which is also known as the Volcano of Fire. Glowing hot rock tumbled down the volcanos flanks over a mile kilometers from the crater. The office 
A U.S. Embassy statement says the zoo will begin raising the birds for eventual release into the wild. The goal is for Mexico to take over all aspects of breeding and reintroduction in the country. The raptors once ranged from Canada to Mexico but nearly became extinct in the s. 
A sevenmillionyearold human skull has been found in the African republic of Chad. 
Christened Touma which means hope of life in the local Goran language the find is said to be the most important fossil discovery in living memory.
It is twice the age of previously found apeman skulls making it the earliest known relic of recognisably human lineage.
Last July a French team led by Poitiers University palaeontolgists Michel Brunet and Patrick Vignaud were excavating in sandstone beneath the sands of the Djurb Desert. 
They unearthed six specimens including a cranium jaw and teeth. Assembled Toumas skull displays a mix of primitive and modern features. His braincase looks like that of an ape but his short face and teeth are similar to those of humans. His prominent brow is of a shape found only in our Homo line.
The theory is that Touma lived on the perimeter of Lake Chad before the central African land became desert. 
It is the first skull find from a critical time in human evolution between million years ago when there were only apes and fivemillion years ago when evidence suggests early human ancestors or hominids appeared.
Bernard Wood of George Washington University WashingtonDC wrote in Nature that although Touma is not a missing link it does suggest a diversity of apemen lived even sixto sevenmillion years ago.
Indeed the discovery strengthens the argument that humans did not evolve in a linear progression from apes that roamed the planet million years ago. Rather our lineage sprouted in many directions the socalled bushy model before we evolved as Homo erectus and then modern humans Homo sapiens.
According to Australian National University anthropologist DrAlan Thorne the Chad discovery is important because it pushes things back a few million years. 
From this and previous discoveries of things like teeth and a few femurs. its clear that there were upright people six to sevenmillion years ago he said.
Professor Colin Groves from the Australian National Universitys Department of Archaeology and Anthropology was equally enthusiastic about the discovery but less convinced the skull is human.
He places Touma at the point in evolution before humans and chimpanzees diverged believed to be around fivemillion years ago. One reason for doubt is Toumas small canine teeth.
We have precedence for short canines in other things besides humans such as the creature Graecopithecus which is said to be an early protogorilla.
By clicking Send to a friend you agree ABC Online is not responsible for the content contained in your email message.
We already know that men are pigs but now we also know that men are the kind of pigs who corrupt the morality of dogs. And how do we know this Well scientists have discovered it and the media are Read More 
Last week the news agency Agence FrancePresse AFP issued a press release with the title Rightwing candidates are better looking says study. The item described a study conducted by Swedish and Finnish economists in which nonFinns rated Finnish Read More 
MRC Technology MRCT a medical research charity and AstraZeneca a global biopharmaceutical company are launching an initiative to find new epigenetic drug targets in respiratory disease. MRCT and AstraZeneca are now seeking academics with relevant epigenetics targets to collaborate with them to develop novel treatments for respiratory diseases which affect millions of people every year.
The topic of this months newsletter from Drug Discovery Today is Cancer.
By Steve Carney. Since Ive been the Editor of Drug Discovery Today I have made the conscious effort to include articles of interest to medicinal chemists in the Pharmaceutical and Biotech industries. Not least because Medicinal Chemists make up still a very significant proportion of the Pharma discovery community but also because their efforts produce the lifeblood of the Pharma pipelines although marginally less now with the advent and success of biological therapies.
Much has already been written about the potential effects of Brexit on both the British economy as well as the rest of the word visvis effects on immigration employment wages inflation investment growth and so forth and by now we know that either the sky is going to fall or it will be like manna falling from the sky. Definitely one of those two. Reality however is a bit more nuanced and what follows may be sector specific and depend on the regulations and terms that are negotiated upon exit. 
Some of the most deadly environmental toxins including dioxins could soon be a thing of the past thanks to the joint efforts of a Welsh scientist and partners in Syria and France.
CANCER RESEARCH UK scientists are developing a bubbly drink packed with oxygen microbubbles to make treatments more potent for hard to treat tumours like pancreatic cancer.
Researchers from The University of Adelaide in South Australia found that a specific peptide in the spider venom could be used to understand how people sense pain.
Cell biologists most notorious approach to detect and semiquantify proteins western blotting could well be on its way down. Professor Sven Eyckerman VIBUGent and colleagues developed a set of universal protein tags that warrant protein quantification via targeted proteomics techniques. The development and applications of these new tags named Proteotypic peptides for Quantification by SRM PQS are described in the online open access journal Scientific Reports.
The Bible is not just an ordinary book it claims to be the Word of God. In it there are amazing accounts of Gods direct intervention in human history. Can we find direct evidence of these events Dont miss hearing the details in these discovery seminars.
Starting August in Christchurch New Zealand and continuing til August th.
Two new astronauts and a cosmonaut will lift off toward the International Space Station tonight July beginning a twoday journey and you can watch it live here on Space.com.
Nebulas come in all sorts of shapes sizes colors and configurations from almostperfect spheres and shells to dazzlingly complex helices to tangled wrecks. But where exactly do they come from And perhaps more importantly where are they going
When Kate Rubins was born in October only one woman had flown into space. Now years later Rubins is on the verge of becoming the th woman to leave Earth for orbit. Rubins a microbiologist will spend four months on board the space station.
A photographer was stargazing at the Platte River near Louisville Nebraska when he captured this image of the Milky Way peeking through the night sky.
Three space travelers will begin an extended twoday journey to the International Space Station tonight July .
Black holes are the ultimate believers in personal privacy refusing to allow any information about them to escape into space. Rather than searching with their eyes however scientists have found a way to peer inside them using math.
NASAs solarpowered probe will give us a better idea of Jupiters weather magnetic field and formation history.
Saturns biggest moon Titan might possess the kind of chemistry that could eventually lead to life albeit without water a new study finds.
In the weeks leading up to the s arrival at Jupiter Monday night July Juno captured a stunning video of the four Galilean moons Callisto Europa Ganymede and Io circling the giant planet in a firstofitskind view of celestial dynamics.
As astronomers track down more clues as to the existence of a large world orbiting the sun in the outer fringes of the solar system a classic planetary purveyor of doom has been resurrected.
According to science reporter Ian ONeill the Planet X hypothesis has made another comebackthis time its not the punchline of a bad doomsday joke its based on observations of the strange nature of objects in the outer solar system.
Caltech astronomers Mike Brown and Konstantin Batygin believe a huge planetary object more than times the mass and size of the Earth and up to times the sunEarth distance may be causing space debris in the Kuiper Belt to enter the inner solar system creating a major threat potential to the planet Earth. Brown and Batygin say the Earth has experienced species extinctions every million years caused by a barrage of comets flung at Earth by the gravitational instability triggered by the eccentric orbit of a major planetary body like Planet . Whether this catastrophic event is the fault of the asyet unseen Planet or some other body further out is unknown. Brown says there is something out there beyond the dwarf planet Pluto and the Kuiper Belt that has flooded the inner solar system with damaging debris. All of this reminds me of the book Worlds In Collision by the controversial scientist Immanuel Velikovsky. Velikovsky said a large object penetrated the inner solar system eons ago creating both the conditions for life and the instrument of its destruction. While the book was widely condemned in the s Velikovsky may have hit upon the truth although his arguments remain unproven.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
The idea of using a single time zone for the entire world turns up every now and then. The latest version of this commendable but nonpragmatic idea comes from Johns Hopkins University Economics professor Steve Hanke and his colleague astrophysicist Richard Henry.
Both professors believe the world would be more efficient and productive if everyone set their clocks to Coordinated Universal Time UTC the system used by the scientific community.
A series of international conferences over a century ago established precisely delineated lines based on sunlight properties. However during the past years or so these lines have evolved into separate time zones some with offsets ranging between and minutes.
Hanke and Henry contend this mishmash of time zones creates confusion in financial markets shipping schedules and travel plans.
For the latest science and technology news please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
Not content with informing us that God does not exist or that we could be wiped out by an alien invasion the British physics superstar has now gone on the record to say humanity will score the mother of all own goals in the future.
Hawking contends that even if we manage to avoid destroying ourselves a space disaster that could cripple the Earth is long overdue and could happen in the next thousand to ten thousand years.
For now humanity has a thin sliver of time to work out the logistics and survival strategies necessary to leave the planet before we destroy it or see it ended by a meteor storm or some other calamity.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
Remembering David Bowie who has died at age from odd Ziggy Stardust to the rock icon he became. 
Perhaps this is not a real science or technology story. Its rather a tribute to an eccentric British singer composer and entertainer who did much to bring attention to early space programs with his iconic Major Tom song. UK astronaut Tim Peake on board the International Space Station paid tribute to Bowie in a special tweet from Earth orbit.
Bowie was immensely talented having recreated himself numerous times and in the process changing the course of music in the latter half of the th century. He starred in several films including The Man who fell to Earth Merry Christmas Mr. Lawrence and cameo roles in a Twin Peaks episode on television.
Bowie had a tender human side as well. His stunning duet with the late Bing Crosby on a Christmas television special more than years ago is a true classictender respectful and heartfelt. I will never hear The Little Drummer Boy quite the same since that performance.
As Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars he shocked outraged rand poked fun at our culture mores and politics.
Perhaps Bowie didnt intend to promote science and space but he did fire up our imagination and warned us of the uncertainties and unlimited possibilities of space travel.
Author Kieran Mulvaney has done an excellent job of encapsulating the career of a truly extraordinary mana riddle within a riddleDavid Bowie.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
North Korea says it has successfully tested a miniature hydrogen bomb if confirmed the country would be among a small group with such dangerous weapons.
If claims of a North Korean Hydrogen Bomb detonation are true then the heavilyarmed reclusive Northeast Asian country will soon belong to the socalled Nuclear Club of nations that have fission ABomb and Fusion HBomb capability. Should those claims be true then countries such as the Peoples Republic of China Japan the United States and perhaps the Russian Federation will find themselves in a diplomatic bind. Basically how do you bell the cat or close Pandoras Box after the fact
The author of this article has found another reason to fear North Koreas march to the HBomb horizon. This comes in the form of Enhanced Radiation Warheads that are smaller than conventional H or A Bombs and can be used on a variety of missile platforms including ICBMs that can reach much of the Pacific Rim and the western United States. ERWs are fairly cheap to produce and can be launched from missiles or even field artillery. ERWs are based on the principle of the HBomb fussion but are designed to generate more radiation than blast energy making them good weapons against armored or mechanized units as well as urban areas. These warheads will kill or incapacitate crews and urban populations while leaving buildings equipment and infrastructure relatively free of damage.
If North Korea perfects Enhanced Radiation weapons it would give the inwardlooking regime an effective way to intimidate its neighbors.
In the past North Korea has used threats broken promises and other criminal activity to bully nations into supporting the despotic regime with food fuel and industrial goods. Whether North Korea will resort to this timetested tactic is unknown but what is known is that North Korea is full of unexpected surprises some of them quite deadly. This will not be a quiet year in North Asia.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are update regularly.
Tonight the sun will be directly overhead at . degrees south latitude and the Earths axial tilt will be as far from the sun as possible.
Tim Wall does an excellent job of describing the scientific cultural historical and religious traditions behind the Winter Solsticethe time when no other night is as long and no day shorter.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
Artistic portrayals of Jesus have seemingly come to a consensus though his image has changed over the centuries.
This is not the Jesus we got to know through Western Art. Based on the latest forensic techniques using a yearold Jewish skull ancient documents and stateoftheart technology the real historical Jesus may have looked like this reconstruction.
James Charlesworth a professor of New Testament languages at Princeton University says Jesus certainly looks far more like that person than me and others who live in the West.
People define religious figures such as Jesus in terms of their own culture. Check out the depictions of Jesus and his disciples in Byzantine Russian Italian and Coptic Christian art and you will see physical features common to people of that culture.
Perhaps we should worry less about the physical appearance of Jesus and more about his message to our world especially at this time of year.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
For the past years researchers have tried to link certain health problems such as diabetes heart disease and breast cancer to the excess weight that many of us carry around our mid section. Now a report authored by Dr. Francisco LopezJimenez states that the extra fat along your waistline may increase your risk of mortality more than that of your obese peers.
The study shows that excess abdominal fat often labeled as central obesity is linked with adverse health outcomes diabetes cardiovascular disease and breast cancer.
Dr. LopezJimenez says that the health effects of an expanding waistline can be reduced by a program of resistive exercise a diet low in fats sugars and carbohydrates and an improved weighttohipratio. The study also revealed that of the U.S. population may be suffering central obesity without even knowing it.
Dr. LopezJimenez wants doctors and hospitals to test patients for central obesity before serious health problems develop. A cautionary tale for all of us. Eat smart and stay alive.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly. You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
At least students at a Colorado high school were found trading nude pictures and posting them on social media.
No one should be surprised by the use of technology for sexual gratification curiosity and even exploitation. Sexting is some form has been going on for years. This scandal seems worse than it is because the humiliation embarrassment and bullying are happening to our own children. Thats got to hurt.
In addition to the current Colorado sexting law there are also privacy and confidentiality issues involved. Perhaps the school administration should have held a general school assembly in the beginning of the academic year to explain the law to students and to clarify how digital devices could be used in school. In theory that may have served as a warning for some of the more daring or adventurous students.
The real issue moral standards notwithstanding is what happens to those pictures once they go online. Students should have been told beforehand that employers the government and the military can access email and instagram accounts for investigative or reference purposes. A suggestive photo taken a few years earlier may come to haunt job seekers in the future. Once a picture or personal data enter cyberspace they never really disappear. Former NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden showed us that fact not so long ago. The real tragedy here is not that a few sexually suggestive photos were shared but rather that these photos can be used against students in the future. Blackmail and embarrassment can really hamper your lifestyle.
Its also incumbent on us adults to clean up our act. Our children expect us to be examples of decent behavior not undercover sexual voyeurs. If we cant fly straight why do we expect our children to be morally pure and socially responsible If we cant run our own lives why impose that standard on our kids
One commenter on this article argued that our double standard of do as I say not as I do has gotten us into a lot of social and moral trouble. Perhaps our traditional Puritanism and moral rigidity have run their course. We no longer live in a world of accepted standards. Moral relativism is ascendant and our children know and accept this. This is a sad pill for parents to swallow but thats the reality of living in an age that respects virtually nothing except immediate gratification. If we live long enough that behavioral choice eventually loses out to common sense social responsibility and political accountability. The sad result of this amoral age is that many of our children will fall by the wayside by making bad choicesthe same illadvised options that now doom many adults. The only difference is that these kids wont know what hit them until its too late.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly. You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
I thought it appropriate to offer this bit of Halloween history for those of us curious about the origin of the Halloween pumpkin. It appears the practice of carving out a large turnip or pumpkin was the result of a failed pact between the Devil and a th century Irish drunk named Stringy Jack. A fanciful and intriguing tale.
When those little neighborhood spooks and goblins come home from their trick or treating adventure please inspect all candy and collected treats. There have been reports in Hawaii that some fruit rolls have been laced with THCthe active ingrediant in marijuana. A few children have had bad reactions to the drug and have ended up in the hospital.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated daily.
You can follow our blog community with a free email subscription or by tapping into the blog RSS feed.
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Retired News director of Pacific Radio Group Radio Stations on Hawaiithe Big Island. I have more than years of broadcast experience including positons at KTUHFM UHManoa KPOIFM Honolulu. KHLOAM Hilo KKBGFM KBIGFMHiloKona KAPAFM HiloKona. NativeFM HiloKona and ESPN Hawaii HiloKona. Former University of HawaiiHilo librarian. Retired Air Force Officer. Amatuer Ham Radio operator since currently holds the Amateur Extra Class License from the FCC.. Can read write and speak Russian. Retired on September but still maintain a Hawaii Island News Blog.
After spending a year in space astronaut Scott Kelly plans to retire next month NASA announced in a press release today. Kelly joined the Astronaut Corps in and currently holds the record for the most time spent in space NASA said. His retirement will take place April . Following his
The horrific video of the Space Shuttle Challenger erupting into a fireball and disintegrating on live television is forever burned into the minds of everyone who watched and remains one of the biggest tragedies in the history of NASA . The incident which happened thirty years ago today came at a
Call it one small step for museum curation. In its firstever Kickstarter campaign the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum is asking the public for to conserve and display the spacesuit Neil Armstrong wore when he became the first man to walk on the moon. The Apollo Moon
Ever wonder what space smells like or how astronauts go to the bathroom Retired astronaut Clayton Anderson author of the new book The Ordinary Spaceman is dishing on everything from his rejections from NASA to what life was like behind the scenes when he finally made it to the International
Hillary Clinton currently under fire for using a private email account during her time as Secretary of State says she sent more than emails during her fouryear term. Her husband isnt quite so esavvy. President Bill Clinton has sent only two emails in his lifetime both during his
We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookie Policies to find out more.
The planet has an atmosphere that could contain water and therefore extraterrestrial life
Earth has a bigger older cousin with an atmosphere that could contain water and therefore presents a substantial opportunity for extraterrestrial life NASA scientists announced last night.
The discovery of what the American space agency said was the nearest thing yet to an Earth . was based on the observations of the Kepler space telescope which has been scanning the Milky Way for Earthlike planets since .
The telescope had hitherto found more than potential candidates but a panel of four eminent scientists including a Britishbased astrophysicist revealed the discovery of Keplerb a superEarth some light years away.
The deep space exoplanet which is about per cent larger than Earth is the first to be found in a comparable habitable zone to this planet in terms of its distance from its star which is also of a comparable size to the sun.
NASA said it was still assessing the data from the telescope and other Earthbased observatories but said there was a better than even chance that the Keplerb was rocky and the temperatures would be right for the generation of water the essential ingredient for life as we know it.
The new planets star is estimated to be about six billion years old some . billion years older than the sun and therefore raised the momentous possibility that life could have developed on its surface NASA said.
The scientists said they could not yet tell if the planet was supporting life but the sunlight from its star is comparable to that experienced on the Earth.
The scientists said the superior age of the new planets star offered a glimpse of the Earths own future with Keplerb receiving per cent more energy from its sun as it burns ever brighter and therefore experiencing a runaway greenhouse effect.
The sweep of NASA Kepler missions search for small habitable planets in the last six years
This size and scale of the Kepler system compared alongside the Kepler system and the solar system
Since Kepler launched in twelve planets less than twice the size of Earth have been discovered in the habitable zones of their stars.
Today Keplerb is receiving percent more energy from its parent star than the Earth is from the Sun
Twelve Exoplanet discoveries from Kepler that are less than twice the size of Earth and reside in the habitable zone of their host star.
There are planet candidates now known with the release of the seventh Kepler planet candidate catalog an increase of since the release of the previous catalog in Jan. 
Highlighted are new planet candidates from the seventh Kepler planet candidate catalog that are less than twice the size of Earth and orbit in the stars habitable zonethe range of distances from a star where liquid water could exist on the surface of an orbiting planet
A unique feature of the seventh Kepler candidate catalog is that it is the first to fully automate the assessment of transitlike signals.
Kepler b could be experiencing now what the Earth will undergo more than a billion years from now as the Sun ages and grows brighter.
The NASA panel said the next step would be to train more Earthbased telescopes on the new planet to try to learn more about its composition and whether it contains water.
Asked whether it might be possible to one day send a probe to Keplerb similar to the New Horizons probe that last week sent back startling images of the surface of Pluto or indeed one day travel there the scientists were cautious.
The Mass Media Registration Certificate EL No. FS of November .
Stay on top of the latest developments in science news including space exploration technological breakthroughs archaeological findings animals environmental research and more.
We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookie Policies to find out more.
A recently discovered form of carbon graphite the material in pencil lead has turned out to have a completely unexpected property which could revolutionise the development of green energy and electric cars.
Researchers have discovered that graphene allows positively charged hydrogen atoms or protons to pass through it despite being completely impermeable to all other gases including hydrogen itself.
The implications of the discovery are immense as it could dramatically increase the efficiency of fuel cells which generate electricity directly from hydrogen the scientists said.
The breakthrough raises the prospect of extracting hydrogen fuel from air and burning it as a carbonfree source of energy in a fuel cell to produce electricity and water with no damaging waste products.
In the atmosphere there is a certain amount of hydrogen and this hydrogen will end up on the other side of graphene in a reservoir. Then you can use this hydrogencollected reservoir to burn it in the same fuel cell and make electricity said Professor Sir Andrei Geim of Manchester Univeristy.
Ever since its discovery years ago graphene has astonished scientists. It is the thinnest known material a million times thinner than human hair yet more than times stronger than steel as well as being the worlds best conductor of electricity.
Until now being permeable to protons was not considered a practical possibility but an international team of scientists led by Sir Andre who shares the Nobel Prize for his work on graphene has shown that the oneatom thick crystal acts like a chemical filter. It allows the free passage of protons but forms an impenetrable barrier to other atoms and molecules.
There have been three or four scientific papers before about the theoretical predictions for how easy or how hard it would be for a proton to go through graphene and these calculations give numbers that take billions and billions of years for a proton to go through this same membrane Sir Andrei said.
Its just so dense an electronic field it just doesnt let anything through. But its a question of numbers no more than that. This makes a difference between billions of years and a reasonable time for permeation. There is no magic he said.
The study published in the journal Nature shows that graphene and a similar singleatomthick material called boron nitride allowed the buildup of protons on one side of a membrane yet prevented anything else from crossing over into a collecting chamber.
In their scientific paper the researchers speculate that there could be many applications in the field of hydrogen fuel cells and in technology for collecting hydrogen gas from the atmosphere which would open up a new source of clean energy.
Its really the very first paper on the subject so what were doing is really to introduce the material for other experts to think about it Sir Andrei said.
It was difficult not to speculate. If you can pump protons from a hydrogencontaining gas into a chamber that doesnt contain anything you start thinking how you can exploit this he said.
One of the possibilities we can imagine however futuristic which has to be emphasised because everything has been shown on a small scale is applying a small electric current across the membrane and pushing hydrogen though the graphene or boron nitride membrane he explained.
Essentially you pump your fuel from the atmosphere and get electricity out of this fuel in principle. Before this paper this wouldnt even be speculation it would be science fiction. At least our paper provides a guidance and proof that this kind of device is possible and doesnt contradict to any known laws of nature Sir Andre added.
Graphene is tough about times stronger than steel yet incredibly light. It is considered the first twodimensional material because it forms sheets of crystal that are just one atom thick.
It is also an excellent conductor of electricity so is useful for anything involving electronics such as bendable mobile phones and cameras and wearable electrical devices attached to clothing.
Medical applications include its possible use as a material for delivering drugs to damaged sites within the body which could open new avenues for treating patients with brain conditions such as Parkinsons disease or cancer.
Graphene is also being developed as a new material for membranes involved in separating liquids. It could be used to purify water in the developing world or to create more efficient desalination plants.
Scientists also believe that graphenes high strength and low weight can be harnessed in the making of new composite materials and polymers for the transport industry making travel safer and more fuel efficient.
Now it seems graphene might also be used to generate new forms of generating clean electricity using hydrogen fuel cells and even as a technology for harvesting hydrogen fuel from air.
The most common types of cancer treatment are surgery chemotherapy and radiation but were well aware of their limitations. 
One thats showing great promise is immunotherapy a revival of an approach from a century ago. Immunotherapy activates a persons own immune system to fight cancer and there are three main types.
The first uses antibodies which are proteins produced by specialized immune cells. Antibodies recognize and attach to molecules on the surface of cancer cells killing them. 
Another uses cytokines which are protein molecules that control the activities of the immune system much like the conductor of a symphony. Cytokines activate a myriad of molecules and cells in the immune system to destroy cancer cells. 
Scientists extract these immune cells from tumors grow them to high numbers in the lab enhance their cancer killing properties and reintroduce them into the body. 
Lately weve seen remarkable results using cancer immunotherapy on melanoma an aggressive skin cancer. Researchers recently identified a T cell protein PD that was inhibiting the cells cancer killing potential. 
In another study this time with removing T cells from leukemia patients and reengineering them to recognize and target cancer cells trials have shown of patients went into remission. 
Cancer immunotherapys potential is so promising that in it was named the Breakthrough of the Year. 
The Mass Media Registration Certificate EL No. FS of November .
There are many ways to look inside the brain without cutting it open and each imaging technique has its pros and cons. The Laboratory of Neuro Imaging at UCLA has created a human brain atlas using data collected by the International Consortium for Brain Mapping from. More
There are many ways to look inside the brain without cutting it open and each imaging technique has its pros and cons. The. More
In August in the German valley of NeanderNeanderthal in Germanmen cutting limestone for the Prussian construction industry stumbled upon some bones in a cave. Looking vaguely human the bonesa piece of a skull portions of limbs and. More
In August in the German valley of NeanderNeanderthal in Germanmen cutting limestone for the. More
Sight sound touch smell taste. We interact with the world and navigate through it thanks to our senses. But what if we could add to that. More
Off the coast of Honduras on Roatan Island a legendary experiment in dolphin communication is being attempted for the first time in yearsone that could prove that dolphins can in effect speak with one another to coordinate their behavior. Other studies. More
Off the coast of Honduras on Roatan Island a legendary experiment in dolphin communication is being attempted for the. More
An Oxford University researcher will soon test whether applying an electric current to part of the brain can help children learn mathan effect previously demonstrated in adults. Parents are already lining up for access to the device. But is the technique safe And. More
An Oxford University researcher will soon test whether applying an electric current to part of the brain can help children. More
Meet inspiring disabled animals with Nature analyze problemsolving bird brains with NOVA and discover how the legacy of a fish can be seen in our own DNA in the new threepart series Your Inner Fish.
Funding for NOVA scienceNOW is provided by the National Science Foundation the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and PBS viewers.
National corporate funding for NOVA is provided by Cancer Treatment Centers of America.Major funding for NOVA is provided by the David H. Koch Fund for Science the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and PBS viewers. 
PBS is a c notforprofit organization.Website WGBH Educational Foundation
Drug discovery is the process through which potential new medicines are identified. It involves a wide range of scientific disciplines including biology chemistry and pharmacology. 
CRISPRCasbased genome editing tools have been developed recently to study noncoding transcriptional regulatory elements enabling the characterization of enhancers in their endogenous context. The applications current limitations and future development of such CRISPRCas tools are discussed with emphasis on identifying and characterizing enhancer elements in a highthroughput manner.
A multidisciplinary expert panel from the American Society of Clinical Oncology has endorsed the updated European Association of Urology guidelines for the management of muscleinvasive bladder cancer with one exception. The panel also provides additional clarification of several recommendations.
Elizabeth Howell writing for Discovery News cites AXANAR as an example of how some Star Trek fan projects are attracting significant crowdfunding to support their production.
Stay on top of the latest developments in science news including space exploration technological breakthroughs archaeological findings animals environmental research and more.
Googles DeepMind will train AI to spot eye disease using NHS data. The terms of the partnership show how such deals could benefit both sides
Currently only in Japan Australia and New Zealand but theres an Android workaround.
WASHINGTON Reuters Ten companies are recalling about hoverboards after numerous reports of the selfbalancing scooters batteries catching fire the U.S. Consumer Products Safety .
Last year Amazon kicked off its inaugural Picking Challenge to encourage teams to create robots able to perform the task of an Amazon stock picker. This year the competition was expanded .
Just because Snapchat mostly revolves around disappearing messages doesnt mean you always want those snaps to go away. In fact the company wants to help you do just the opposite .
Airborne drone delivery is still more PR than public reality but wheeled selfdriving delivery bots could be trundling down a sidewalk near you sooner than you think. Londonbased Starship .
Everyones picking teams for the coming connected car wars and Volkswagen and LG have chosen each other. The new smart car squad announced a memorandum of understanding .
Apples base model for the nextgeneration iPhone might finally come with GB of storage according to the Wall Street Journal. The move would end the annoying practice of making you .
The State Department is defending its handling of classified and sensitive information against statements by the FBI director that the department doesnt handle such information as well as other .
Google on Wednesday announced a deal to buy Moodstocks a French startup behind technology that helps smartphones recognize whatever they are aimed at.
Science News Daily is a computer generated news service with no human editors in background. Science News Daily uses completely automated algorithms to display the most popular news stories. To do so it evaluates several news parameters like the number of news sources a story appeared in date of publication etc. It also automatically match news stories to appropriate categories based on news content.
Your smartwatch is giving away your ATM PIN minutes ago People with student loan debt oppose Obamas tuitionfree college plan study finds minutes ago Amdocs founder named chairman of biometrics startup minutes ago Public urinal generates electricity from urine minutes ago Biodiversity data import from historical literature assessed in an EMODnet Workshop Report minutes ago Old specimens establish a new bamboo worm genus and species minutes ago Researchers and farmers collaborate to prevent E. coli minutes ago Game theorydoes the rhino poacher or the gamekeeper win hours ago Rare bactrian deer survives years of turmoil in Afghanistan hours ago Bees ability to forage decreases as air pollution increases hours ago 
RSS stands for Really Simple Syndication and is an easy way of receiving new content from Science News Daily 
The time or date displayed reflects when an article was added to Science News Daily. 
Life saver Scientists may have solved the riddle of how the Earth managed to keep hold of its organic matter after it was hit by a Marssized object roughly . billion years ago.
The throttling was so severe scientists believe Earth melted with some of the molten splatters eventually coming together to form the Moon. Lightweight materials like water and carbon would have vaporised. How then did the building blocks for life manage to survive
A new study suggests the organics were locked in stable chains formed from formaldehyde an ironic finding considering that formaldehyde ended up being poisonous to the very life it may have made possible.
Formaldehyde is very interesting very reactive. It can even react with itself and form complex polymers says George Cody a senior scientist at the Carnegie Institution of Washington.
Formaldehyde also is plentiful in molecular clouds in space meaning ample quantities would have been around for incorporation into the solar systems population.
Two chains of evidence support this theory. First organic solids have been found in meteorites and in comets. A sample from NASAs Stardust comet mission gave Cody and colleagues a sign they were on the right path.
It was about the most chemically complex material I had ever seen in my life says Cody.
Scientists then turned to lab work to reproduce the type of organic matter found in carbonaceous chondrites a type of organicrich meteorite from formaldehyde. They found their formaldehydesynthesized material was similar to what has been found in carbonaceous chondrites and from Comet Wild which was sampled by NASAs Stardust probe.
The experiments also showed the organics would survive temperatures of up to C.
Other molecules found in space such as hydrogen cyanide also could polymerise with itself but they fall apart in hot water he adds.
Formaldehyde is almost unique in its tendency to hang out and hang on as the solar system got hotter and dryer says Cody.
Also buttressing the teams findings is a related study showing that comets may be much more watery than previously thought.
If liquid water environments were common than there are a lot more places to produce prebiotic material says Associate Professor Dante Lauretta from the University of Arizonas Lunar and Planetary Laboratory.
Now that we know what were working with we want to understand the chemistry better adds Cody.
Codys research was reported in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences earlier this month. Laurettas team which also studied Stardust samples is publishing in the online edition of the journal Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta .
By clicking Send to a friend you agree ABC Online is not responsible for the content contained in your email message.
Googles DeepMind will train AI to spot eye disease using NHS data. The terms of the partnership show how such deals could benefit both sides
Currently only in Japan Australia and New Zealand but theres an Android workaround.
WASHINGTON Reuters Ten companies are recalling about hoverboards after numerous reports of the selfbalancing scooters batteries catching fire the U.S. Consumer Products Safety .
Last year Amazon kicked off its inaugural Picking Challenge to encourage teams to create robots able to perform the task of an Amazon stock picker. This year the competition was expanded .
Just because Snapchat mostly revolves around disappearing messages doesnt mean you always want those snaps to go away. In fact the company wants to help you do just the opposite .
Airborne drone delivery is still more PR than public reality but wheeled selfdriving delivery bots could be trundling down a sidewalk near you sooner than you think. Londonbased Starship .
Everyones picking teams for the coming connected car wars and Volkswagen and LG have chosen each other. The new smart car squad announced a memorandum of understanding .
Apples base model for the nextgeneration iPhone might finally come with GB of storage according to the Wall Street Journal. The move would end the annoying practice of making you .
The State Department is defending its handling of classified and sensitive information against statements by the FBI director that the department doesnt handle such information as well as other .
Google on Wednesday announced a deal to buy Moodstocks a French startup behind technology that helps smartphones recognize whatever they are aimed at.
Science News Daily is a computer generated news service with no human editors in background. Science News Daily uses completely automated algorithms to display the most popular news stories. To do so it evaluates several news parameters like the number of news sources a story appeared in date of publication etc. It also automatically match news stories to appropriate categories based on news content.
Your smartwatch is giving away your ATM PIN minutes ago People with student loan debt oppose Obamas tuitionfree college plan study finds minutes ago Amdocs founder named chairman of biometrics startup minutes ago Public urinal generates electricity from urine minutes ago Biodiversity data import from historical literature assessed in an EMODnet Workshop Report minutes ago Old specimens establish a new bamboo worm genus and species minutes ago Researchers and farmers collaborate to prevent E. coli minutes ago Game theorydoes the rhino poacher or the gamekeeper win hours ago Rare bactrian deer survives years of turmoil in Afghanistan hours ago Bees ability to forage decreases as air pollution increases hours ago 
RSS stands for Really Simple Syndication and is an easy way of receiving new content from Science News Daily 
The time or date displayed reflects when an article was added to Science News Daily. 
You Can Watch and Download Free MP Music or Youtube Videos Directly From the Smartphone or Android IOS Blackberry OST Soundtrack All contents are are taken from various sources that you can download for free 
Water a key necessity for life as we know it still flows sometimes on the surface of Mars a new study suggests.
Strong evidence for seasonal flows ofliquid salty water have been detected byNASAs Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter report scientists in a paper published Mondayin the journal Nature Geoscience.
It suggests that it would be possible for life to be on Mars today said John Grunsfeld NASAs associate administration for science at a news conference detailing the discovery.
Previously scientists have found ample evidence that Mars was once much warmer and wetter billions of years ago than it is now and could have supported life then. Ithasnt beenclear whether the colder drier Red Planet of today could still support microbial life. Many scientists think life could still survive deep underground but not necessarilyon the surface where it could be more easily detected.
The study analyzed chemical signatures in streaks that form on some slopes on Mars during warmer times of the year such the dark streaks in this image. These results strongly support the hypothesis that seasonal warm slopes are forming liquid water on contemporary Mars the researchers wrote. NASAJPLUniversity of Arizona
The new study looked at streaks that form on some slopes on Mars during warmer times of the year. Scientists previously suspected theymight be caused by flowing salty water. The streaks which are less than five metres wide and called recurring slope lineae appear in the summer when temperatures can get above the freezing point of even fresh water and well above the freezing point of salty water between C and C. They disappear during colder seasons.
Now Lujendra Ojha a PhDcandidate in planetary sciences at the Georgia Institute of Technology and his colleagues are reporting they have detected the chemical signatures of brines in the streaks that suggest those streaks form as the result of water activity on Mars thats still happening today.
The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter spacecraft has been orbiting that planetsince taking detailed images of the surface and scanning it for the chemical signatures of water and minerals associated with water.
What Ojha and his colleagues did was tease out the chemical signatures from individual pixels in images of the slope lineae. They found signatures for waterlogged salts in the streaks but not in the surrounding soil. 
These results strongly support the hypothesis that seasonal warm slopes are forming liquid water on contemporary Mars the researchers wrote.
The brineforming the streaks would be far saltier than the Earths oceans perhaps five per cent water and per cent salt suggested Alfred McEwen a University of Arizona in Tuscon researcher who coauthored the paper.
They would likely appear as thin layers of wet soil not more than a centimetre deep not standing water he said at the news conference.
But because the streaks are visible over large areas of the surface of Mars if you add it all up it could be a significant volume.
In fact said Mary Beth Wilhelm of NASAs Ames Research Center another coauthor of the paper that water could potentially be used as a resource by future human explorers decreasing the cost and increasing the resilience of human missions to Mars.
The types of saltsfoundsodium perchlorate magnesium chlorate and magnesium perchloratecan lower the freezing point of water by to degrees and reduce its evaporation at higher temperatures making it stable on the surface of Mars under a wider range of conditions than usual. Thats what made it detectable even during the midafternoon the driest time of day on Mars but the time of day that the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter scans the surface.
In the paper the researchers noted that on Earth similar brines offer the only known refuge for active microbial communities in the driest parts of Chiles Atacama Desert.
Dark narrow streaks called recurring slope lineae appear on the walls of Garni crater on Mars. The dark streaks here are up to few hundred metres in length and contain chemical signatures for waterlogged salts or brines. NASAJPLUniversity of Arizona
On Mars such brines could provide transiently wet conditions near surface the researchers said. However they cautioned that the amount of water may be too low to support known organisms that exist on Earth.
Grunsfeld added that the brine streaks arent the most likely place on Mars to find life better conditions for microbes would likely be underground near a source of fresh water rather than salty water.
The researchers said they still dont know where the water supplying the brine might be coming from. Most likely Wilhelm said the salts are absorbing water from the atmosphere until they dissolvethrough a process called deliquescence. But researchers arent sure if theres enough water vapour in Marss atmosphere for that to happen.
Signs of similar saltshave previously also been found by the Curiosity rover that is currently still exploring the surface as well as the Phoenix mission in and possibly the Viking landers in the s.
This image was taken by the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter spacecraft which has been orbiting the planet since taking detailed images of the surface and scanning it for the chemical signatures of water and minerals associated with water. Greg ShirahNASA
To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations first and last names will appear with each submission to CBCRadioCanadas online communities except in children and youthoriented communities. Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted.
By submitting a comment you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time.
Spat between Liberals and Tories over Google reveals confusion about how search works
Stay on top of the latest developments in science news including space exploration technological breakthroughs archaeological findings animals environmental research and more.
Ca toate celelalte siteuri Discovery folosete cookieuri pe siteurile sale. Dac vizitai paginile noastre web i setrile browserului dumneavoastr accept cookieuri considerm acest lucru ca fiind acceptarea utilizrii de ctre noi a modulelor cookie. Aflai ce nseamn cookieurile i cum le putei gestiona citind politica de confidenialitate. Continund s vizitai siteul nostru suntei de accord cu folosirea cookieurile din partea noastr.
erpii veninoi atac anual peste . de oameni omornd i trimind n spital mii. n ciuda statisticilor cutremurtoare veninul e folosit.
Cursele de strad au explodat n toat America cu ligi subterane i echipe care reprezint diverse orae. 
ncrcturile sunt mai mari drumurile mai dificile iar aciunea mai intens ca oricnd n noul sezon al seriei Camioane n Australia.
erpii veninoi atac anual peste . de oameni omornd i trimind n spital mii. n ciuda statisticilor cutremurtoare veninul e folosit.
Cursele de strad au explodat n toat America cu ligi subterane i echipe care reprezint diverse orae. 
ncrcturile sunt mai mari drumurile mai dificile iar aciunea mai intens ca oricnd n noul sezon al seriei Camioane n Australia.
Two police officers are on leave following the fatal shooting of a black man outside a Baton Rouge store.Outrage over video 
Family and supporters of Alton Sterling held a heartbreakingly emotional press conference in the wake of the mans reported death at the hands of two Louisiana cops. The teen son of yearold Sterling broke down into sobs Wednesday morning as his mother lamented to reporters that shell never be able to help him unsee the moment his own father was shot dead. A video that purports to show Baton Rouge police officers fatally shoot Sterling while hes pinned to the ground has sparked outrage and protests in the Bayou State and beyond.
The vote is already affecting major currency rates especially EURGBP GBPUSD. This happens once in a lifetime
On Saturday Hillary Clinton spent three and a half hours being interviewed by the FBI over the private email server she used as Secretary of State. Attorney General Loretta Lynch has revealed that she will defer to the eventual FBI decision on whether or not to indict Clinton but the prospect of an actual indictment doesnt seem likely. Regardless of the projected outcome the controversy remains lodged in the public consciousness and WikiLeaks celebrated Independence Day by publishing of Clintons emails.
A South American airline is asking its employees to be on the lookout for a former Guantanamo Bay detainee who was resettled in Uruguay after being freed by U.S. authorities. Uruguayan authorities have insisted for weeks that he is visiting neighboring Brazil and that as a refugee he is entitled to leave Uruguay but the Brazilian government has said there is no record of Dhiab entering the country. Danilo Alves a spokesman for Colombiabased Avianca Airlines in Sao Paulo told The Associated Press on Monday that the alert was issued internally to employees but declined to give any more details.
Family members of a yearold black man fatally shot by police in Baton Rouge La. broke down in tears Wednesday as they mourned the loss of a father and pledged to fight for justice. Supporters of Alton Sterling who was killed early Tuesday while police apparently pinned him down outside a convenience store called for the police chief to be fired or resign and urged residents to boycott the local mall after the fatal shooting. I for one will not rest or not allow him to be swept in the dirt said Quinyetta McMillon the mother of Sterlings yearold son.
Party members especially those in leadership roles need to ensure they keep their family members on tight leash to prevent corruption the official newspaper of Chinas ruling Communist Party said on Tuesday after a highprofile jailing. A Chinese court on Monday jailed a former top aide to retired president Hu Jintao for life after finding him guilty of taking bribes illegally obtaining state secrets and abuse of power during a secret trial. The party announced its investigation into the onetime aide to Hu Ling Jihua in December .
Saturated fats in butter lard and red meat raise the risk of early death but replacing these with fats like olive oil can offer substantial health benefits a threedecade study confirmed on Tuesday. The research involving more than people was published in the Journal of the American Medical Association JAMA Internal Medicine. There has been widespread confusion in the biomedical community and the general public in the last couple of years about the health effects of specific types of fat in the diet said lead author Dong Wang a doctoral candidate at Harvard Universitys T.H. Chan School of Public Health.
You get unlimited access to Amazons entire catalog of more than million eBooks and thousands of audio books on any device any time anywhere. The services normally costs . per month which is already an insane value but today only Prime members can get even better deals thanks to Amazons weeklong Prime Day sales event.
Golden State Warriors star and NBA MVP Stephen Curry surprised some very lucky basketball campers after impersonating a Girl Scout. The team posted a video of Curry knocking on doors and shouting Im selling Girl Scout cookies One young basketball camper opening the door was so stunned that he fell to the floor. The video continues with Curry knocking on another door but this time posing as a pizza delivery man.
The controversy over Hillary Clintons use of a private email server while secretary of state may soon be over. Lynch distanced herself from the storm by revealing that she would defer to the FBIs eventual desired outcome but everyone even WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange admitted that an indictment was unlikely. WikiLeaks did release emails which featured a trove of cutandpasted media articles letters sent to Clinton and other flotsam.
The House wont vote on proposed Democratic gun curbs Speaker Paul Ryan suggested Tuesday as the rekindled electionyear clash over firearms showed no sign of resolution. In an interview early Tuesday Ryan RWis. said Democrats plans to broaden required background checks for gun buyers and to bar firearm sales to terror suspects were unconstitutional.
Facing a potentially damaging ruling from an international court in its dispute with the Philippines China has cranked up a public relations offensive to defend its stance in the court of world opinion. The sledgehammersubtle PR campaign came to Washington on Tuesday with a former top Chinese official warning that Beijing will reject the tribunals authority and cautioning the United States to tread carefully in the contested waters. Speaking at a conference at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Dai urged countries not to carry out the courts decision and warned that his government would not tolerate any further provocation from the Philippines.
Punished for holding hands with a boyfriend or girlfriend for wearing nongenderconforming clothing to class or prom or for defending themselves against verbal harassment and physical assaultthose are just some of the discriminatory incidents LGBT students experience in U.S. public schools. According to a new report from the Gay Lesbian and Straight Education Network these unfair school disciplinary policies are pushing LGBT students out of the classroom and into the criminal justice system. The report released last week found that nearly percent of LGBT students had received detention . percent of LGBT students had been suspended from school and . percent of LGBTQ students had been expelled often for infractions related to identity or orientation.
Hightech thieves use a laptop to hack into a cars electronic ignitions. And today sect by stealing a car goes high tech in police and insurance companies say some thieves are using laptops to hack into the ignition systems. And steal vehicles other
By Steve Holland WASHINGTON Reuters Republican Donald Trump is using part of this week to try out some of his potential vice presidential running mates as he seeks to make his choice in time for the Republican National Convention July . Republicans close to the campaign say Trump and his team are considering announcing his running mate pick next week ahead of the convention to try to get maximum media buzz from the move. As his aides vet the people on his short list Trump is getting an upclose look at some of the candidates and talking about it publicly dispensing with the usual tradition of keeping secret the process of choosing a running mate.
A firework that exploded and seriously injured the foot of a yearold who stepped on it in Central Park probably was created by someone with a basic knowledge of chemistry but not designed to intentionally hurt people police said. The homemade explosive that went off Sunday probably was designed to make a large noise maybe make a flash said Lt. Mark Torre commanding officer of the New York Police Departments bomb squad. The a.m. blast on the east side of Central Park could be heard for blocks leaving some with the belief that it was part of a July Fourth celebration.
Hong Kong police offered protection on Wednesday to a bookseller who was detained in China for eight months without access to a lawyer as Beijing warned that he was violating his bail terms. Lam Wingkee was seized after crossing the border into China and taken away blindfolded for allegedly bringing banned books into the mainland he said last month. The yearold is part of a group of staff from a Hong Kong firm that published salacious titles about leading Chinese politicians.
Miranda Hernandezs grandparents lost everything when they fled Cuba in the s. Right off the bat Im going to say honestly its not that bad she said on Thursday afternoon as she visited the Havana apartment where her mother lived as a young girl. The declaration of U.S. detente with Cuba was made possible by the softening of a hard line held for half a century by Floridas powerful CubanAmerican community.
Torrential rain has sparked deadly floods along the Yangtze River inflicting a rising death toll over the past few days and sweeping away key transport networks across central and eastern China. State officials placed the number of fatalities at with another people missing as of Sunday according to the South China Morning Post.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said his countrys raid on Ugandas Entebbe airport years ago in which his brother was killed changed the course of his life and had a lasting influence on his countrys relations with Africa. Speaking shortly after his arrival in Uganda Netanyahu praised Israels commando raid on the airport which freed Israeli hostages from a hijacked plane. It also was a monumental event for Netanyahu as the death of his brother Yonatan pushed him into the public eye and on a track that would take him to the countrys highest office.
Crisishit Venezuela is willing to restore diplomatic relations with the United States after a sixyear freeze the socialist government said Monday. The foreign ministrys announcement came two weeks after top US diplomat Thomas Shannon met with Venezuelas President Nicolas Maduro in a bid to help tackle the countrys economic and political crisis. The two countries have not exchanged ambassadors since due to tensions between Washington and the government of Hugo Chavez Maduros mentor and late predecessor.
A barge being used for a July Fourth fireworks celebration in Massachusetts exploded and caught fire.
A Fourth of July weekend family trip to the gun range turned tragic for a Florida teen whose father accidentally shot him dead while his two siblings stood by. Stephen Brumby was with his brother and sister at the High Noon Gun Range in Sarasota Sunday when a spent shell casing struck their father William Brumby and somehow landed in his shirt. Brumby then used his right hand which was holding the handgun in an attempt to remove the casing.
The parent company of infidelity dating site Ashley Madison hit by a devastating hack last year is now the target of a U.S. Federal Trade Commission investigation the new executives seeking to revive its credibility told Reuters. Have an affair cost Avid Life Media more than a quarter of its revenue Chief Executive Rob Segal and President James Millership revealed in an interview the first by any senior executive since the incident.
If you love your mother you try to kill her of course Follow daredevil Baz Ashmawy and his yearold Irish mother as they crisscross the globe on extreme adventures. Theyre exploits will have you on the edge of your seat and their loving bond will warm your heart.
At New YorkPresbyterian Hospital and Brooklyns Lutheran Medical Center the emergency rooms are often crowded and bustling. NY ER gives viewers an insiders look into wild world of NYC emergency medicinefrom extreme asthma attacks to gunshot wounds the cases are never ordinary.
Psych Week is a week of programming featuring individuals dealing with mental illnesses ranging from schizophrenia to hoarding to OCD.
Untold Stories of the ER is an inside look at some the craziest stories and cases to enter an emergency room.
We already know that men are pigs but now we also know that men are the kind of pigs who corrupt the morality of dogs. And how do we know this Well scientists have discovered it and the media are Read More 
Last week the news agency Agence FrancePresse AFP issued a press release with the title Rightwing candidates are better looking says study. The item described a study conducted by Swedish and Finnish economists in which nonFinns rated Finnish Read More 
There are many ways to look inside the brain without cutting it open and each imaging technique has its pros and cons. The Laboratory of Neuro Imaging at UCLA has created a human brain atlas using data collected by the International Consortium for Brain Mapping from. More
There are many ways to look inside the brain without cutting it open and each imaging technique has its pros and cons. The. More
In August in the German valley of NeanderNeanderthal in Germanmen cutting limestone for the Prussian construction industry stumbled upon some bones in a cave. Looking vaguely human the bonesa piece of a skull portions of limbs and. More
In August in the German valley of NeanderNeanderthal in Germanmen cutting limestone for the. More
Sight sound touch smell taste. We interact with the world and navigate through it thanks to our senses. But what if we could add to that. More
Off the coast of Honduras on Roatan Island a legendary experiment in dolphin communication is being attempted for the first time in yearsone that could prove that dolphins can in effect speak with one another to coordinate their behavior. Other studies. More
Off the coast of Honduras on Roatan Island a legendary experiment in dolphin communication is being attempted for the. More
An Oxford University researcher will soon test whether applying an electric current to part of the brain can help children learn mathan effect previously demonstrated in adults. Parents are already lining up for access to the device. But is the technique safe And. More
An Oxford University researcher will soon test whether applying an electric current to part of the brain can help children. More
Meet inspiring disabled animals with Nature analyze problemsolving bird brains with NOVA and discover how the legacy of a fish can be seen in our own DNA in the new threepart series Your Inner Fish.
Funding for NOVA scienceNOW is provided by the National Science Foundation the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and PBS viewers.
National corporate funding for NOVA is provided by Cancer Treatment Centers of America.Major funding for NOVA is provided by the David H. Koch Fund for Science the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and PBS viewers. 
PBS is a c notforprofit organization.Website WGBH Educational Foundation
As astronomers track down more clues as to the existence of a large world orbiting the sun in the outer fringes of the solar system a classic planetary purveyor of doom has been resurrected.
According to science reporter Ian ONeill the Planet X hypothesis has made another comebackthis time its not the punchline of a bad doomsday joke its based on observations of the strange nature of objects in the outer solar system.
Caltech astronomers Mike Brown and Konstantin Batygin believe a huge planetary object more than times the mass and size of the Earth and up to times the sunEarth distance may be causing space debris in the Kuiper Belt to enter the inner solar system creating a major threat potential to the planet Earth. Brown and Batygin say the Earth has experienced species extinctions every million years caused by a barrage of comets flung at Earth by the gravitational instability triggered by the eccentric orbit of a major planetary body like Planet . Whether this catastrophic event is the fault of the asyet unseen Planet or some other body further out is unknown. Brown says there is something out there beyond the dwarf planet Pluto and the Kuiper Belt that has flooded the inner solar system with damaging debris. All of this reminds me of the book Worlds In Collision by the controversial scientist Immanuel Velikovsky. Velikovsky said a large object penetrated the inner solar system eons ago creating both the conditions for life and the instrument of its destruction. While the book was widely condemned in the s Velikovsky may have hit upon the truth although his arguments remain unproven.
For the latest science and technology developments please check out the blog sidebars. These news feeds are updated regularly.
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Retired News director of Pacific Radio Group Radio Stations on Hawaiithe Big Island. I have more than years of broadcast experience including positons at KTUHFM UHManoa KPOIFM Honolulu. KHLOAM Hilo KKBGFM KBIGFMHiloKona KAPAFM HiloKona. NativeFM HiloKona and ESPN Hawaii HiloKona. Former University of HawaiiHilo librarian. Retired Air Force Officer. Amatuer Ham Radio operator since currently holds the Amateur Extra Class License from the FCC.. Can read write and speak Russian. Retired on September but still maintain a Hawaii Island News Blog.
Drug discovery is the process through which potential new medicines are identified. It involves a wide range of scientific disciplines including biology chemistry and pharmacology. 
CRISPRCasbased genome editing tools have been developed recently to study noncoding transcriptional regulatory elements enabling the characterization of enhancers in their endogenous context. The applications current limitations and future development of such CRISPRCas tools are discussed with emphasis on identifying and characterizing enhancer elements in a highthroughput manner.
A multidisciplinary expert panel from the American Society of Clinical Oncology has endorsed the updated European Association of Urology guidelines for the management of muscleinvasive bladder cancer with one exception. The panel also provides additional clarification of several recommendations.
The Human Brain Documentary human brain documentary human brain structure and function human brain anatomy and physiology human brain project human brain and quantum physics human brain power human brain evolution in this video.
The human brain is the main organ of the human nervous system. It is located in the head protected by the skull. It has the same general structure as the brains of other mammals but with a more developed cerebral cortex. Large animals such as whales and elephants have larger brains in absolute terms but when measured using a measure of relative brain size which compensates for body size the quotient for the human brain is almost twice as large as that of a bottlenose dolphin and three times as large as that of a chimpanzee. Much of the size of the human brain comes from the cerebral cortex especially the frontal lobes which are associated with executive functions such as selfcontrol planning reasoning and abstract thought. The area of the cerebral cortex devoted to vision the visual cortex is also greatly enlarged in humans compared to other animals.
The human cerebral cortex is a thick layer of neural tissue that covers most of the brain. This layer is folded in a way that increases the amount of surface that can fit into the volume available. The pattern of folds is similar across individuals although there are many small variations. The cortex is divided into four lobes the frontal lobe parietal lobe temporal lobe and occipital lobe. Some classification systems also include a limbic lobe and treat the insular cortex as a lobe. Within each lobe are numerous cortical areas each associated with a particular function including vision motor control and language. The left and right sides of the cortex are broadly similar in shape and most cortical areas are replicated on both sides. Some areas though show strong lateralization particularly areas that are involved in language. In most people the left hemisphere is dominant for language with the right hemisphere playing only a minor role. There are other functions such as visualspatial ability for which the right hemisphere is usually dominant.
Despite being protected by the thick bones of the skull suspended in cerebrospinal fluid and isolated from the bloodstream by the bloodbrain barrier the human brain is susceptible to damage and disease. The most common forms of physical damage are closed head injuries such as a blow to the head a stroke or poisoning by a variety of chemicals which can act as neurotoxins such as ethanol alcohol. Infection of the brain though serious is rare because of the biological barriers which protect it. The human brain is also susceptible to degenerative disorders such as Parkinsons disease and Alzheimers disease mostly as the result of aging and multiple sclerosis. A number of psychiatric conditions such as schizophrenia and depression are thought to be associated with brain dysfunctions although the nature of these is not well understood. The brain can also be the site of brain tumors and these can be benign or malignant.
Discovery Science Channel The Human Brain HD Documentary Science Documentary Discovery Channel Documentary The Human Brain Documentary .
Discovery Science Channel The Human Brain HD Documentary Science Documentary Discovery Channel Documentary The Human Brain Documentary .
nova the minds big bang documentary. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature geographic .
the limits of human intelligence nova documentary. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national geographic .
Top Best HD Illuminati TopSecret Secret Security Sky Googlemap google youtube Uncensored nude certified Government CIA FBI .
Becoming Human First Steps NOVA full documentary. Thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution how eyes evolved nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of size nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of guts nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
in search of the missing link nova documentary. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
Full BBC Documentary Space Full BBC Documentary Space Full BBC Documentary Space Documentaries Full Length National Geographic .
The Secret Life of Your Body Clock full documentary. thanks for watching history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of speed nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national .
For more science and technology videos and documentaries please subscribe to my channel ScienceTechnology U
The Extraordinary Genius of Albert Einstein Full Documentary HD The core of the video is a workshop pedagogical on the Theory of Special Relativity as part of .
evolution the evolution of skin nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of jaws nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
ResolvedQuestion is a search engine for Resolved questions only. We have over questions indexed and nearly twice as many answers 
Does outer space show evidence of Intelligent Design or did the universe just 
Guilty Yet Free is a true and illustrated gospel story that helps us to understand 
truth about Charles Darwin and his theory of evolution. You will also discover 
The Bible is not just an ordinary book it claims to be the Word of God. In it there are amazing accounts of Gods direct intervention in human history. Can we find direct evidence of these events Dont miss hearing the details in these discovery seminars.
Starting August in Christchurch New Zealand and continuing til August th.
Obamas top scientist talks shrinking budgets Donald Trump and his biggest regret
John Holdren tells Nature about the highs and lows of nearly eight years in the White House.
Chemist killed on Mexican university campus Juno craft reaches Jupiter orbit and Nobel laureates defend genetically modified organisms. 
John Holdren tells Nature about the highs and lows of nearly eight years in the White House. 
Late nights typos selfdoubt and despair. Three leading scientists dust off their theses and reflect on what the PhD was like for them. 
Doctoral courses are slowly being modernized. Now the thesis and viva need to catch up. 
Inventive graphic design and abstract models are helping researchers to make sense of a glut of data. 
Scientists from lowincome backgrounds face barrier to entry but no pay discrimination. 
Thirty years on from the first congress on peer review Drummond Rennie reflects on the improvements brought about by research into the process and calls for more. 
Stphane Hallegatte Katharine J. Mach and colleagues urge researchers to gear their studies and the way they present their results to the needs of policymakers. 
The Biological Weapons Convention needs to take the assessment of emerging scientific dangers more seriously argues Malcolm Dando. 
Writing a PhD thesis is a personal and professional milestone for many researchers. But the process needs to change with the times. 
Ann Finkbeiner examines a study that probes how drones have remixed warfare. 
Colin Macilwain talks to the curators of the National Museum of Scotland on the eve of a grand expansion. 
Jeff Tollefson explores the formidable artists restless experimentation with materials photographic technique and mechanization. 
Looking for funding Heres a smart guide for sources off the beaten track says Ingrid Eisenstadter. 
Smart money management eases the financial worries that can affect academic success. 
How biotechnologist MaryDell Chilton discovered a way to put new genes into plants. 
From incubation in a bra to an afterlife under glass how a cloned sheep attained celebrity status.
This week Dolly the sheeps legacy the trials of funding interdisciplinary research and an IPCC for social science.
The Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases CCID 
Macmillan Publishers Limited part of Springer Nature. All Rights Reserved. 
The owner of this website tvweb.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beccefdaua.
If you love your mother you try to kill her of course Follow daredevil Baz Ashmawy and his yearold Irish mother as they crisscross the globe on extreme adventures. Theyre exploits will have you on the edge of your seat and their loving bond will warm your heart.
At New YorkPresbyterian Hospital and Brooklyns Lutheran Medical Center the emergency rooms are often crowded and bustling. NY ER gives viewers an insiders look into wild world of NYC emergency medicinefrom extreme asthma attacks to gunshot wounds the cases are never ordinary.
Psych Week is a week of programming featuring individuals dealing with mental illnesses ranging from schizophrenia to hoarding to OCD.
Untold Stories of the ER is an inside look at some the craziest stories and cases to enter an emergency room.
Kari Byron Tory Belleci and Grant Imahara ended their run on the hit reality series this year
Discovery Channel revealed at the end of the season finale ofMythbusters that cohostKari Byron Tory Belleci and Grant Imahara would not return for more episodes but the network may not be done with any of them just yet.
In response to nearly people petitioning Discovery to rehire the only female Mythbuster on the team the network said it hopes to work with Byron Belleci and Imahara in the future on new projects.
We are all big fans of Kari as well as Tory and Grant and are looking for other projects where we can work with them Discovery said in a statement.
A spokeswoman from the network said to stay tuned whenTheWrapreached out forcomment about what projects if any are being developed.
The petition shunned Discovery for taking a huge step backward by removing Byron from the reality series which will only be hoested by original stars Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman going forward.
As the main female Mythbuster Kari inspired a generation of girls and showed them that they too had a place in the traditionally maledominated world of science the petition reads. We already know that women and minoritiesoften feel unwelcomein the sciences and discouraged from pursuing STEM studies and careers. Why is Discovery reinforcing thesedamaging stereotypes
Yesterday Discovery News published a review of CrossFit. The host Trace Dominguez made many false and misleading claims. What followsis a transcript of the show with Russ Greenesnotes inserted.
How do you know someone does CrossFit Because theyll tell you. But is it worth all the love Science says its not even close.
Hey fitness fanatics Trace here for DNews. CrossFit is a growing trend because enthusiasts say it makes them look hot. of CrossFitters are women and there are CrossFit gyms they call them boxes across the US. Some CrossFit enthusiasts say that the benefit of the exercise regimen are fat loss and muscle growth but the science behind this exercise program is well shady.
All the facts here are false. There is no evidence that of CrossFitters are women. There are nearly CrossFit gyms not . The shady science he mentions showed that CrossFit was effective at increasing work capacity and VOMax and decreasing body fat percentage.
Each athlete in the study experienced an overall increase in his or her work capacity over the eightweek training period based on their performance during the assessments. These increases ranged from . to . with an average increase of . see Appendix E Performance Data. Therefore very generally we can conclude that the CrossFit program is a successful method for increasing the level of physical fitness of U.S. Army Soldiers.
Ideally the senior trainers would attend both a Level I certification and the CrossFit Coaches Preparation course to educate them in techniques for managing the overall unit program
Ohio State studied it and was like its ok if its done right which its usually not.
Our finding that improvement of VOmax in subjects who are stratified as well above average is at odds with previous work using a HIIT protocol that finds no improvement of VOmax. Even HIIT studies in well trained subjects using hyperoxia have previously failed to find an improvement of oxygen consumption in subjects of comparably high VOmax. Compared to HIIT our results indicate a possible superior role for HIPT in the improvement of maximal aerobic capacity in welltrained subjects.
To be sure the OSU study alleged that of the subjects failed to show up to final testing citing overuse or injury. But this claim is baseless and fraudulent. More on that later.
And now CrossFit hascome under fire not because CrossFit is bad but because theres a culture of going too high too fast. CrossFit combines cardio jumps lifts pulls gymnastics and repetition with an emphasis on speed. It pushes newbies to heavier lifts quickly relative to traditional programs which gets results quickly but isnt based on lifestyle changes longterm health or training goals and instead focuses on the workout goals. Its more about the workout culture lifting more going faster and being more awesome. Its like brozercise
To the extent that he is claiming that CrossFit pushes newbies beyond their ability levels this is completely false and unsupported. CrossFit teaches to develop mechanics then consistency and only then add intensity. It also instructs all trainers to scale workouts to levels their clients can manage.
Part of the reason that theres no emphasis on health goals or training programs is because CrossFit coaches arent actually really trained. Certification takes two days and costs a thousand dollars. Anyone can do it and its a great way to cash in on a new craze. Compare that to a PhD in sports science or kinesiology and the culture suffers for that dolla dolla bills yall.
It is fundamentally misleading to compare the CrossFit L to PhD programs. No personal training certificate requires a PhD. Like CrossFit the ACSM and NSCA offer personal training and group exercise certificates that require written tests but CrossFit goes one step further with inperson instruction on teaching movements.
If he wants to compare CrossFits L he should compare it to other personal training certificates. Almost no trainers anywhere have PhDs in a relevant field and most PhDs do not train people as a profession.
Sciencewise CrossFit is too new to really measure accurately. A study in Plosone found lifting low weights with many reps improves fitness and strength better than heavy weights. But CrossFit exercise calls for repetitive lifts with a high weight. Why I dont know.
CrossFit trains athletes to lift weights for low reps moderate reps and high reps Why Because CrossFit trains people for the unpredictable physical demands of life and sandbags rocks suitcases etc. rarely must be lifted just once.
Olympians who are peak human specimens stick to gradual increases and low reps because ya know science. Olympic trainers are focusing on conditioning strength and health. Conversely the culture of CrossFit seems to only love it harder faster with more power. So the culture seems to be the problem not the exercise.
This presents a false dichotomy between focusing on conditioning strength and health and pursuing harder faster with more power. The fact is that conditioning strength and health can only be improved and measured through improvement in weights lifted time for completion etc.Christie Rampone captain of the goldmedal winning US Olympic soccer team threetime Olympic gold medalist
Another problem is how common injuries are among CrossFitters and the weird culture around that. A CrossFitter was quoted in the New York Times saying that he values pushing the body to the point where the muscles destroy themselves.
Citing whatone CrossFitter said in is not representative of the CrossFit community as a whole or CrossFit policy at all. What is Traces source for his allegations about CrossFits culture What CrossFit gym has he attended of the affiliates
But doing repetitive rapid exercises lifting heavy weights thats not good for the human muscle.
It is impossible to lift heavy weights times rapidly. Any load that can be lifted times rapidly is necessarily not heavy.
During exercise muscles have micro traumas which then heal during rests periods building more muscle. Because of a lack of trained exercise scientists CrossFit culture values that pain above the safe training and thus the muscle tissues eventually fail causing rhabdo which is a cute nickname CrossFitters have for rhabdomyolysis. Rhabdomyolysis happens when the muscle tissue bursts due to overexertion literally the cell pops releasing the contents of it into the blood stream leading to hospitalization and possibly kidney failure. It can happen naturally outside of a CrossFit gym due to severe dehydration or heavy use of heroin or cocaine or extreme heat or seizures or destructive crushing trauma like in a car crash but CrossFit style exercises increase the likelyhood of rhabdomyolysis over the general population by .
Where is the source for the claim that CrossFit increases the risk of rhabdo by 
He fails to mention that a wide range of exercise has caused rhabdomyolysis. This gives the impression that it is caused by extreme trauma or only CrossFit exercise.
When Ohio State attempted a single person study dropped out due to injury. Good exercise and fitness requires months or years of slow increasing difficulty a lifestylechanging diet and proper supervision.
The exercises in CrossFit decrease body fat they increase muscle mass and they help with oxygen usage by the body says a study from the NIH. Theres not a major league team military organization or Olympic team that officially support or practice CrossFit.
False. The U.S. Military is CrossFits single largest client for CrossFit seminars. CrossFit has conducted hundreds of seminars for U.S. military units. TheMarine Corpsand Army linked above have both published materials in support of CrossFit.
And the National Strength and Conditioning Association has never given it accreditation.
The NSCA does not grant accreditation to its competitors and is itself accredited by an external body. The NSCAs courses are accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies. In turn CrossFit is accredited by the American National Standards Institute.
What do you think of CrossFit Have you tried it Have people tried to get you to try it Share youre feelings about this craze in the comments and subscribe for more DNews.
This guy needs to be slappedalso whoever allowed them to go through with this videoscript needs to be slapped. Very unprofessional. Great job Russell
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
The find in the south of the country will help researchers understand the behaviour and migration of blue whales aiding conservation measures.
The iconic blue whale is the largest mammal on Earth and was driven to nearextinction by commercial whaling.
The researchers claim the area located in a sheltered network of fjords surrounded by longdormant volcanoes is one of the most important blue whale Balaenoptera musculus feeding and nursing grounds yet discovered in the southern hemisphere.
They occur principally around the Gulf of Corcovado and the western coast of Chiloe island.
It was amazing to discover something like this in . One thinks this is not an era of discovery but we still have much to learn marine mammal ecologist Dr Rodrigo HuckeGaete of the Universidad Austral de Chile told BBC News Online.
Scientists have little information on where blue whales breed although it is thought to take place in tropical waters. 
The nursing and feeding area was discovered following a blue whale study cruise along the Chilean coast in early organised by the International Whaling Commission IWC.
Observers on the boats noticed that many whale sightings were occurring closer to shore than expected. 
A followup boat trip into the fjords by whale expert Don Ljungblad and others found the site which was later identified as a whale nursing and feeding ground.
Aerial and marine surveys in recorded at least mother and calf pairings suggesting the area was indeed being used to rear whale calves.
Dr Ken Findlay of the University of Cape Town South Africa a coauthor of the research said the discovery of the site would give scientists easy access to the whales helping conservation efforts.
Southern Hemisphere blue whales generally leave their Antarctic feeding grounds at the onset of autumn. 
They arrive in the tropics at the onset of winter in order to give birth and breed. When spring arrives they begin to migrate back to the Antarctic.
However the blue whales at ChiloeCorcovado were clearly spending summer near the tropics in contrast to conventional wisdom.
One possibility is that the population found in the fjords of southern Chile are in fact pygmy blue whales Balaenoptera musculus brevicauda thought by some marine biologists to constitute a separate subspecies.
But the designation is highly controversial and not accepted by all whale experts. Pygmy blue whales are not thought to follow the same migration patterns as true blue whales.
The authors of the latest paper say it is too early to determine whether the Chilean whales belong to this subspecies and that genetic testing satellite tracking and photogrammetry the technique of measuring objects from images is needed to say for certain.
If we find large aggregations of blue whales outside their known habitats then thats good news because there are more than we thought Dr Read added.
Another possibility that the animals are capable of changing their habits is not currently accepted by many marine biologists. But some scientists do consider this a plausible alternative.
The IWC estimates that there could be up to individual SouthernHemisphere blue whales left. This has risen from around a quarter of a century ago but the recovery has been proceeding slowly.
The Chilean National Environmental Agency has endorsed a proposal towards declaring the area a protected marine park.
Discovery Channel online lets you explore science history space tech sharks more with videos news plus exclusives on your favorite TV shows.
Encapsulated PostScript EPS format. The current status of the logo is active which means the logo is currently in use.
trademark holder and is offered to you as a convenience for lawful holder only. You hereby agree that you agree to the Terms of Use and that the artwork you download will be used for noncommercial trademark holder. Failure to obtain such permission is a violation of international copyright and trademark laws subject to specific
Bruno and Matt from Truck U demonstrate how to put a new front grill on an old Chevy truck.
World Champion drag racer Clay Millican stops by Truck U to work with the guys on his Billie Hop.
Blakes been working hard on a Mustang Mach but when Dan comes by to check out the work he quickly spots a problem with the cars pully.
Discovery Channel online lets you explore science history space tech sharks more with videos news plus exclusives on your favorite TV shows.
Encapsulated PostScript EPS format. The current status of the logo is active which means the logo is currently in use.
trademark holder and is offered to you as a convenience for lawful holder only. You hereby agree that you agree to the Terms of Use and that the artwork you download will be used for noncommercial trademark holder. Failure to obtain such permission is a violation of international copyright and trademark laws subject to specific
Bruno and Matt from Truck U demonstrate how to put a new front grill on an old Chevy truck.
World Champion drag racer Clay Millican stops by Truck U to work with the guys on his Billie Hop.
Blakes been working hard on a Mustang Mach but when Dan comes by to check out the work he quickly spots a problem with the cars pully.
The find in the south of the country will help researchers understand the behaviour and migration of blue whales aiding conservation measures.
The iconic blue whale is the largest mammal on Earth and was driven to nearextinction by commercial whaling.
The researchers claim the area located in a sheltered network of fjords surrounded by longdormant volcanoes is one of the most important blue whale Balaenoptera musculus feeding and nursing grounds yet discovered in the southern hemisphere.
They occur principally around the Gulf of Corcovado and the western coast of Chiloe island.
It was amazing to discover something like this in . One thinks this is not an era of discovery but we still have much to learn marine mammal ecologist Dr Rodrigo HuckeGaete of the Universidad Austral de Chile told BBC News Online.
Scientists have little information on where blue whales breed although it is thought to take place in tropical waters. 
The nursing and feeding area was discovered following a blue whale study cruise along the Chilean coast in early organised by the International Whaling Commission IWC.
Observers on the boats noticed that many whale sightings were occurring closer to shore than expected. 
A followup boat trip into the fjords by whale expert Don Ljungblad and others found the site which was later identified as a whale nursing and feeding ground.
Aerial and marine surveys in recorded at least mother and calf pairings suggesting the area was indeed being used to rear whale calves.
Dr Ken Findlay of the University of Cape Town South Africa a coauthor of the research said the discovery of the site would give scientists easy access to the whales helping conservation efforts.
Southern Hemisphere blue whales generally leave their Antarctic feeding grounds at the onset of autumn. 
They arrive in the tropics at the onset of winter in order to give birth and breed. When spring arrives they begin to migrate back to the Antarctic.
However the blue whales at ChiloeCorcovado were clearly spending summer near the tropics in contrast to conventional wisdom.
One possibility is that the population found in the fjords of southern Chile are in fact pygmy blue whales Balaenoptera musculus brevicauda thought by some marine biologists to constitute a separate subspecies.
But the designation is highly controversial and not accepted by all whale experts. Pygmy blue whales are not thought to follow the same migration patterns as true blue whales.
The authors of the latest paper say it is too early to determine whether the Chilean whales belong to this subspecies and that genetic testing satellite tracking and photogrammetry the technique of measuring objects from images is needed to say for certain.
If we find large aggregations of blue whales outside their known habitats then thats good news because there are more than we thought Dr Read added.
Another possibility that the animals are capable of changing their habits is not currently accepted by many marine biologists. But some scientists do consider this a plausible alternative.
The IWC estimates that there could be up to individual SouthernHemisphere blue whales left. This has risen from around a quarter of a century ago but the recovery has been proceeding slowly.
The Chilean National Environmental Agency has endorsed a proposal towards declaring the area a protected marine park.
Drug discovery is the process through which potential new medicines are identified. It involves a wide range of scientific disciplines including biology chemistry and pharmacology. 
CRISPRCasbased genome editing tools have been developed recently to study noncoding transcriptional regulatory elements enabling the characterization of enhancers in their endogenous context. The applications current limitations and future development of such CRISPRCas tools are discussed with emphasis on identifying and characterizing enhancer elements in a highthroughput manner.
A multidisciplinary expert panel from the American Society of Clinical Oncology has endorsed the updated European Association of Urology guidelines for the management of muscleinvasive bladder cancer with one exception. The panel also provides additional clarification of several recommendations.
DiscoveryNews is a recently launched science and technology news website from Discovery Communications. It features breaking news and indepth articles related to the Earth Space Tech Animals Dinosaurs Archaeology Human and History.
You can search the website browse articles by categories leave comments and subscribe to content of your interest.
The site also includes regular contributions from HowStuffWorks.com on variety of topics and for news junkies it provides iPhoneiPod touch app to read the news on the go.
Thanks for subscribing. Weve sent you a confirmation link youll need to click on to verify your email address.
Get a free Grouvi app iOSAndroid to participate in MakeUseOf live chat groups.
Enter your mobile number to receive a free text message with the download link for the app.
This article may contain affiliate links which pays us a small compensation if you do decide to make a purchase based on our recommendation. Our judgement is in no way biased and our recommendations are always based on the merits of the items. 
New malware infects million Android devices Pokemon GO arrives on Android and iOS Skype Meetings is aimed at small businesses PlanetSide ends with a meteor shower and the computer genius who sucks at Tetris.
Amazon Prime is one of the best events for consumers in last decade. It reallybrought online shopping to the masses and transformed the way we approach purchases.
The notetaking tool and its million users rivals the number of Pinterest and Snapchat users and one can bet that Evernote users spend more hours on the 
RAM or Random Access Memory is essentially a piece of hardware that stores your computers shortterm memory while the computer is running.
Amazon positions itself as The Everything Store and like any other store there are bargains to be had. But with the millions of items listed it can be difficult to find the freebies and the 
With so many apps on my Android phone there are naturally a lot of notifications. Many of them can be dismissed without ever reading. Im glad there are builtin tools to block notifications from any 
This article may contain affiliate links which pays us a small compensation if you do decide to make a purchase based on our recommendation. Our judgement is in no way biased and our recommendations are always based on the merits of the items. 
Lisa Warren. The Sutters Mill meteorite a daytime fireball streaks across the California morning sky.
The June edition of Discover Magazine refers to the NASA Meteor Counter app though this has been updated to the newer AMS Meteors App. Check it out to collect awesome data on meteors fireballs and meteorites.
A fireball exploded over a parking lot shortly after daybreak in April of showering the area near Sutters Mill the original site of the California Gold Rush with new treasure. Meteorite hunters and scientists rushed to discover the first stones from the meteor known as the Sutters Mill meteorite in the parking lot of a local park. Though to be fair planetary scientist Marc Fries of NASA technically found it first.
To find and gather data on meteorites scientists have always relied heavily on the eyewitness reports of citizen scientists a process slow and fraught with the faults of human memory. But Mike Hankey the operations manager at the American Meteor Society AMS is changing that. Hankey is a web developer by trade but hes now using his technological wizardry to hunt for fallen stars. In Hankey created an enhanced web app where citizen scientists can record observations like their coordinates and the position of the meteor in the sky information scientists and meteorite hunters need to find meteorites. The old ways of reporting are changing Hankey says with technology we can reinvent meteor observing.
Marc Fries says he loves these AMS reports and he uses them regularly. When hes looking for meteoritedropping fireballs Fries says Ill periodically scroll through and look for ones that are promising. In Hankey and Fries used the data to triangulate the position of the Sutters Mill meteorite. At best Hankey says we can triangulate a D trajectory to a couple of kilometers. With the search narrowed scientists begin scanning the area on Doppler radars used to detect clouds and weather patterns for clouds kicked up by meteorites at the time reported by citizen scientists and the place calculated by the trajectory. Et voila you find a meteorite within to hours of a fall says Hankey.
It worked perfectly for Sutters Mill. Fries says that he pulled out the eyewitness reports and looked at the radar data and there it was. And the web apps citizen science reports worked to find three other meteorites that year too. Now Hankey is ready to take the next step in opening up the sky to citizen science by mobilizing into iPhone and Android with a phone app just launched this month in the Apple store. The app is an evolution of both the AMS fireball reporting web app and an older meteor counting app designed by NASA. Hankey says the old apps were good but they were missing a lot of everything. NASAs Meteor Counter could only capture the number of meteors and their brightness in a night. With a swipe the new AMS Meteors app can now get the direction frequency and type of meteors helping NASA further evaluate the relative risk meteroids can have to spacecraft.
And when it came to fireball reports Hankey says people still had trouble with the elevation and velocity of a fireball when reporting on the AMS webpage. Youre not going to know the difference between and . Its a hard thing to judge. But the phone knows you just have to point it into the sky Hankey says. Well be able to get the elevation azimuth angles longitude latitude of the person and all this stuff right off the phone device. With a wave of the phone the app increases the accuracy of every aspect of fireball reporting making what Fries calls the vagaries in peoples recollection a thing of the past.
Fries says all this information can both help scientists trace a meteorites journey through space to its origin and more quickly to its location on Earth. Fresh meteorite falls are some of the most valuable and rarest windows into the solar system. Most meteorites are stumbled upon long after their fall and much of the evidence from their former lives have already weathered away sometimes over hundreds of years and sometimes in just days. Meteorite scientist Peter Jenniskens of NASA recovered parts of the Sutters Mill meteorite only hours after the fall allowing the scientists to identify a mineral called oldhamite that had never been seen in meteorites before. If Jenniskens hadnt arrived quick enough to rescue a few meteorites heavy rains would have washed away any trace of the oldhamite at Sutters Mill.
Mike Hankey. A .g fall from the Sutters Mill meteorite valued at . Hankey and Fries were able to take the witness reports from web version of the AMS Meteors app to locate the position of these meteorites.
Being able to find meteorites comes with other bonuses too. Meteorites fetch a hefty price on the rock market. Hankey says his group picked up a .g meteorite at Sutters Mill which is valued at around . But Hankey and Fries both say its not about the bounty. And while Hankey says meteorite falls like Sutters Mill is one of the most scientifically like amazing meteorites almost ever its not just about the science either. Its the whole adventure Hankey says. Its the excitement.
Though Fries likes the hunt too he really loves getting the chance to teach planetary science to the locals. Its absolutely wonderful Fries says. The level of interest is astronomical. You get really excited and enthusiastic Its spectacular one of the best science education opportunities there is. Fries says when a meteor comes to peoples neighborhoods they want to know what that thing was. They want to get their hands and eyes on it and pretty soon their phones too.
To get involved with the American Meteor Society go to the SciStarter Portal for this project.
I think that after doing all the work for these people making money out of this that the sender of the information is entitled to share in the bounty 
I found a meteorite about twenty years ago while relic hunting with a metal detector. It is an iron meteorite about the size of a small tennis ball but larger than an egg. Heavy and super dense. A magnet will hold it in a death grip. Does this one have any value 
Angus Chen is the managing editor for the SciStarter Blog network which includes the Discover magazine Citizen Science Salon blog and the Public Library of Sciences Cit Sci blog. And hes a freelance reporter and producer at WNYC Public Radio on The Takeaway where he covers general assignment news. You can also read his work with Science magazine. He was once a scientist studying geology and ecology but now spends his days typing and scribbling and sketching furiously.
Sign up to get the latest science news delivered weekly right to your inbox
In a justreleased Discovery News piece Kieran Mulvaney November In the polar bear capital an uncertain future repeated three misleading statements about Western Hudson Bay polar bears that keep making the rounds despite the fact they have been laid to rest by the latest scientific reports on Lunn et al. Stapleton et al. . I reviewed these just a few weeks ago.
Climate change is causing the bays ice to melt earlier and freeze later causing bears to spend longer a shore.
Not true. Lunn and colleagues stated explicitly that there has been no trend in either break up or freezeup of WHB sea ice since . Although there has been large variability in dates that lack of trend that has continued to this year.
As a consequence Churchills polar bears are decreasing in number from approximately three decades ago to roughly now and in physical condition.
This deliberately misleading statement avoids the fact that the latest surveys found roughly the same number of bears in as in the estimate used by the IUCN Polar Bear Specialist Group for WHB is when different counting methods were taken into account. The bear estimate came from the markrecapture survey which left out a portion of the range that the aerial survey covered hence the official estimate of .
In addition there has been no scientific assessment of body condition or cub survival since before the last population estimate in polar bear experts keep telling journalists there are declines but have yet to produce any data to support those claims. The latest surveys did not collect data on body condition or cub survival.
Mulvaneys misinformation is almost certainly the result of spending time in Churchill with activist Polar Bears International spokesperson Steve Amstrup and activist climate scientist Katherine Hayhoe doing webcasts e.g. Challenges of communicating climate change.
Stop wanton slaughter s go up works for all species. S Beaufort polarbear s dipped due to thick spring seaice
Both statements are true and supported by scientific literature. But Hayhoe is all about climate communication which appears not to allow science to intrude.
Lunn N.J. Regehr E.V. Servanty S. Converse S. Richardson E. and Stirling I. . Demography and population assessment of polar bears in Western Hudson Bay Canada. Environment Canada Research Report. November . PDF HERE
Lunn N.J. Servanty S. Regehr E.V. Converse S.J. Richardson E. and Stirling I. . Demography and population assessment of polar bears in Western Hudson Bay Canada. Environment Canada Research Report. July . PDF HERE This appears to be the version submitted for publication
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
One minor problem. Snow cover has been steadily increasing and last winter had the greatest snow cover on record.
I think the operative phrase in that article is researchers made overdue adjustments.
These clowns are trying to adjust the world into something no one will recognize.
So places that have snow on the ground tend to be colder than nearby places without snow said Gong. 
They just made the discovery of a sharp decline in snow cover between and Wow very impressive. No one noticed it at the time. 
I feel so much better about the state of our climate now that these guys have gone back and done the proper adjustments to data from the s. I mean how could it have been missed Thank goodness for the really cool computers and software they have created to alter reality. Think of what else we can do now.
Fall and winter snows are just as extensive as ever but the snow melts earlier in the spring.
Youre not being a killjoy. The graph starts in the when the earth was cooling and there was all the talk about a coming ice age. PDO shifted and caused what you see in the first of the graph. But PDO has shifted again and in time the trend in the graph will reverse as you can see happening over the last years.
The conclusion by the scientist in the article was done using cherry picked data. He had to narrow things down to a small area to get a conclusion that confirmed what a climate model predicted. This is so usual that it is now easy to detect these things.
Im not saying hes right only pointing to the chart the author of the article was referring.
As for the charge of cherry picking perhaps thats the wrong term when all the data available is used. I doubt this scientist is responsible for the fact a satellite wasnt launched to study this snow extents until . Even Im not old enough to have had any input into that decision. 
As for the PDO shift youre probably right but the snow extent over the last three years dont show any particular trend not in the spring.
Not only focusing on Spring but Spring in only parts of the world. I thought AGWers like to say well North America isnt GLOBALLY or Europe isnt GLOBALLY Then we see stuff like this. They twist themselves in such ways its astounding to see continual defense of it all.
As for the charge of cherry picking perhaps thats the wrong term when all the data available is used.
I doubt this scientist is responsible for the fact a satellite wasnt launched to study this snow extents until .
Of course. But he is responsible for not pointing out the obviousthat he is using a sort data set.
By picking a period shorter that what is shown to be a full climate cycle you can find any trend to fit your desire. By picking to then to the results are what would have been expected. of course they also had to apply the proper AlGoreRhythm to achieve those results. Somewhere it is said to let the numbers speak for themselves. I wonder if they used Water Boarding to get the numbers to confess From the answers it may have been the RACK and a bit of stretching
I want to see the graphs he is using. Whenever I see the word trend attached to a global warming alarm story I like to see the graphs for myself. Trends are easily manipulated.
You do understand what Mean is right Would you not expect larger snow packs to take longer to melt Show me a graph of a smaller then the mean snow pack that lasts longer then the mean melt time.
Details that could throw doubt on your interpretation must be given if you know them. You must do the best you canif you know anything at all wrong or possibly wrongto explain it. If you make a theory for example and advertise it or put it out then you must also put down all the facts that disagree with it as well as those that agree with it. There is also a more subtle problem. When you have put a lot of ideas together to make an elaborate theory you want to make sure when explaining what it fits that those things it fits are not just the things that gave you the idea for the theory but that the finished theory makes something else come out right in addition.
In summary the idea is to try to give all of the information to help others to judge the value of your contribution not just the information that leads to judgment in one particular direction or another.
By discounting the significant importance of the recent increases in Winter Snow Extent the authors are biased towards their catastrophic AGW hypothesis and not conducting themselves in accordance with the Philosophy of Science and the Scientific Method as Richard Feynman so eloquently states.
As for Rons assertion that if you are going to comment on the science you would at least look at the numbers place the BLAME for a LACK OF NUMBERS upon Rugers gs Global Snow Lab They dont provide the numbers alongside each graph they present you have to get the numbers from another link and they are incomplete and thus one cant LOOK AT THE LATEST NUMBERS
If any PUBLICLY FUNDED science group publishes graphs they must also publish the numbers ALONGSIDE the graph with a FULL and detailed pedigree of each and every manipulation aka fabrication adjustment of the data all the way back to the original unmodified source observational data. It should all be available with the graph along side it or both in a viewable and downloadable spreadsheet or mathematica workbook. Otherwise they can present anything and change it at a whim and few if any would be the wiser. 
Science at its core is a skeptical stance that demands EVIDENCE be VERIFIED or REFUTED. That becomes impossible when the scientists are playing games of oh the data is ours. No its not yours not if the public paid for it
Also Ron years of snow coverage extent isnt enough to draw major conclusions. As we all know a much longer data set is needed. Also the graphs dont reveal causation at all. As a result no serious conclusions can be drawn certainly not the catastrophic conclusions of doomsday soothsayers blaming man kind.
Where are all the AGWers saying the headline is misleading ChrisD TonyD Laz Sense Implying all snow cover in the headline then later mention only Spring. LOL
Hi Steve Im a bit confused and its Rutgers fault for not presenting the data with their graph. Personally that is a major fail for Rutgers right there since how can anyone trust any graph presented by any alleged scientist if it doesnt have all the data used in the graph along with the ENTIRE pedigree of that data with all of its data manipulations aka revisions aka fabrications potential frauds fully documented.
Maybe its that the table hasnt been updated for yet or have I got the wrong table Thats why this is Rutgers fault for not presenting their alleged scientific data in a viable format. Sigh.
Oh I see the chart is annual but the tables are monthly. Grrrrr. these nerdy scientists just dont know how to present information
Im not sure what you question is They wont post December data until sometime after the month is over. 
I suppose the question is where is their annual data published other than in graphic form 
A question asked to me by a person from NCAR was what is the pedigree of the data That really is a question for Rutgers.
To be honest I would have expected the snowfall area to have decreased since when the PDO switched. I als would expect it to start increasing with the current phase of the PDO.
I remember a few years ago a young mans body was found with his parachute still attached. He had disappeared in a storm in the Sierras in the s after jumping out of a military plane. Which told me that the snow extent when they found him current was the same as when he disappeared s.
Data from the Rutgers site show that northern hemisphere snow cover for the winter months has been increasing at the rate of two million square kilometers per decade for the past two decades. The same data also show the reduction cited for spring and summer northern hemisphere snow cover.
Another sad post. Perhaps exposure does result in contamination and we pick up the bad habits of those we fight. Here we see Goddard again mocking a scientist without even touching upon what he actually said. Much like the Team and Romm mocking MM.
This builds a big audience mocking is easy and fun everyone can join in but its a big fall from Goddards great articles at WUWT Watts would never publish this schlock and his best work here.
Yes but as you know quite well thats not what hes refering to. He is quite specific refering to specific seasonal effects and the average snow extent not the maximum extent.
Even the nearly meaningless annual anomaly is very close to the year mean and has increased for the past twenty years. 
Dont know where Rutgers gets their snow cover data but it dates from the s to the present and is promptly updated monthly. NOAA has a nearly identical numbers which date from the s but their data stopped as of January of . Anyone know why
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Welcome to the Discovery Education Student Center. From this page you will be able to access assignments and assessments that your teacher has created for your class.
Once logged in you can also use the search to find videos interactives images games and more.
ARCHAEOLOGISTS have used satellite imagery to identify a site in Newfoundland that could be the first new Viking site discovered in North America in over years.
Satellite imagery magnetometer surveys and a preliminary excavation of the site at Point Rosee in southern Newfoundland last year could point to a potentially fascinating discovery.
The only other Viking site in North America was found in the s at LAnse Aux Meadows on the northern tip of Newfoundland about miles from Point Rosee.
The archaeologists investigation will feature in Vikings Unearthed a special of PBSs NOVA science series coproduced with the BBC.
Archeologist Sarah Parcak of the University of Alabama Birmingham used highresolution satellite imagery to spot ruins as small as inches buried below the surface according to NOVA. Satellites positioned around miles above the Earth enabled Parcak and her team to scan a vast section of America and Canadas eastern seaboard.
The satellite images two magnetometer surveys and preliminary excavations suggest subsurface rectilinear features according to the experts who also identified possible evidence of ironworking in the form of roasted iron ore. Radiocarbon technology has dated the site to between and AD.
The project was led by Parcak and codirected by Gregory Mumford an associate professor at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and Frederick Schwarz of Black Spruce Heritage Services. Douglas Bolender an archeologist at the University of Massachusetts Boston and historian Dan Snow also participated in the investigation.
Experts will now be conducting further excavation and analysis of the site. If confirmed as Norse by further research the site will show that the Vikings travelled much farther in North America than previously known pushing the boundary of their explorations over miles to the southwest of LAnse Aux Meadows explained NOVA in its press release.
Initial signs certainly hint at a fascinating discovery. A Norse date and affiliation do look rather promising at this still early stage in the project but we simply need more work at this site and more specialist input and peerreviewed data before being confidant in stating this as fact explained the archaeologists in a report of their research.
News.com.aus Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection use and disclosure of your personal information including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities. It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
Posted on May th years ago in Coastal Pollution Human Health Monitoring News Clips
Toxic chemicals are accumulating in the bodies of dolphins and whales according to two new studies and concentrations tend to be highest in the most populated and developed areas.
The findings are not necessarily surprising. Scientists have known for years that the blubber of marine predators harbors pollutants. Still the new studies offer the most extensive evidence yet that dolphins and whales can be sentinels for environmental contamination. By documenting levels of chemicals in blubber scientists can now start to gauge the effects of those chemicals on the animals health and behavior.
P.T. Barnums Feejee mermaidperhaps Animal Planet will feature it in their next documetary Image from Wikipedia
In the infamous showman P.T. Barnum unveiled a truly bizarre creature. In his autobiography Barnum described it as an ugly driedup blacklooking and diminutive specimen its arms thrown up giving it the appearance of having died in great agony.The Feejee mermaid as the mummified remains were called possessed the torso of a monkey with the tail of a fish. Naturalists from around the world came to examine the specimen enticed by letters explaining how a Dr. J. Griffin had hooked the strange creature while fishing in the South Pacific. At first Griffin was reluctant to share his find but somehow Barnum convinced him to reveal the mermaid to the public. Huge crowds swarmed the Concert Hall on Broadway just to get a glimpse.
In his autobiography Barnum explained how he manipulated so many into believing in the Feejee mermaid. How to modify general incredulity in the existence of mermaids so far as to awaken curiosity to see and examine the specimen was now the allimportant question Barnum wrote. I saw no better method than to start the ball arolling at some distance from the centre of attraction. So he wrote letters which appeared in New York papers from Alabama South Carolina and Washington DC. I may as well confess that those three communications from the South were written by myself and forwarded to friends of mine with instructions respectively to mail them each on the day of its date. This fact and the corresponding postmarks did much to prevent suspicion of a hoax and the NewYork editors thus unconsciously contributed to my arrangements for bringing the mermaid into public notice.
You might expect such deception and fraud from P.T. Barnum one of the most notorious showmen of all time. But it seems the executives at Discovery Channel are cut from the same cloth.
On July th a video began circulating showing a suspectedbull shark stealing fish off a line in Lake Ontario. Thatvideo went viral with over views and counting spreading through the media and seeding fear throughout Ontario. TheNatural Resources Minister Bill Mauro even urged citizens to be on the lookout.They should report any sightings of this animal and then we can take whatever steps we think are necessary he said Wednesday. If there is a shark in Lake Ontario we need to know about it. But it turns out the whole thing was just a big publicity stunt by Discoverys Shark Week.
This video has certainly sparked the conversation around sharks Paul Lewis President and General Manager of Discovery is boastfully quoted as saying in a news release on Bell Medias website.Were ready to feed this fascination next month with more Shark Weekhours than ever before.
The chipper explanation assures us that Discovery wants to quell the concerns of Canadians everywhere by coming clean about the hoax.Discoverys confession is of little comfort to many in the Ontario region who spent the week worrying about what lay beneath the lakes surface. Its got a lot of parents being wary Erin Whalen a waitress at a restaurant on Wolfe Island told the National Post. I was really fearful local resident Laura Staley told the Vancouver Sun.
Christine Archer anAquatic Animal Technician with theUniversity of Ottawas Animal Care Veterinary Service lives and works about hours from Wolfe Island where the video claimed to have been shot. Despite being relatively landlocked here we still like to flock to the water she said.I had people students staff coming to the office and asking me about it in the halls. Everyone seemed a little freaked out. As someone who works with a diversity of aquatic animals Archer wasnt fooled by the video. Sharks dont porpoise their bodies like that to dive she said. I insisted that the video was clearly fake but it is hard to convince people.
When the news confirmed that she was right Archer wasnt amused. I feel that this publicity stunt was in extremely poor taste and irresponsible she said. Not just for the residents and visitors of the region but for sharks themselves.
Sadly Im not surprised that Discovery made this video. Shark Week has been getting less and less informational for many years now.
University of Guelph marine biologist Jim Ballantynewho was also skeptical of the video from the onsetsimilarly wasnt impressed with the viral campaign. It sort of seems a bit unethical to frighten people he said.
The Ontario shark stunt wasnt benignit directly harmed the Lake Ontario community. Theres more than damaged trust here said Stemwedel. Official statements from Natural Resource Ministers distract attention and undoubtedly some resources away from nonfabricated matters of actual importance.Government officials have expressed concernover the PR stunt troubled by the very real fear that the local public felt over the fake video.
Though Discovery might think the publicity was worth a little distress feelings of fear and anxiety are real harm to the community that felt them says Stemwedel and says a lot about the kind of relationship Discovery has with its viewership. They didnt just lie about the shark but also about how much their viewers could trust them.
So why would they create such a video in the first place University of Miami shark scientist David Shiffman has an answer.Shark Week seems to believe that real stories about real animals arent enough to get the publics attention so they lied he said. I wish this surprised me.
From the perspective of a professional researcher to have a selfdescribed scientific channel do this sort of publicity stunt is infuriatingsays David Kerstetter Assistant Professor at Nova Southeastern University Oceanographic Center.
Rather than having Shark Week engage the audience with stories of the very real and quite enthralling research going on with elasmobranchs those of us in the field now spend our public outreach efforts debunking silly things like mermaids and the continuing existence of Megalodon.
Theres little doubt that this kind of publicity stunt undermines Discoverys credibility and is harmful to scientific progress and outreach. Last yearI warned Discovery thattheir burgeoning reputation for being loose with facts was going to drive scientists awayscientists that they need to create the highquality educational programming they purport is their mission. So I asked scientists whether they would work with Discovery.
Some made it clear that they have no interest. BBC yes Discovery No said Eric Heupel a graduate student at the University of Connecticut. unless I and any other scientists on show had approval power on the edited version so final airing version of the show. 
Unfortunately such control over content is rarely given to scientists that appear on Discovery. Theyre asked for their time and expertise but rarely get to read scripts let alone write or correct them. Just look at last years Shark Week for example which featured the work of shark scientist Neil Hammerschlag and his colleaguesin their Great White Serial Killer programbut completely distorted the researchand didnt consult them on it.
Maybe years ago I would tweeted Erik Klemetti a volcanologist at Denison University. Right now it would be hard to be convinced that it wouldnt be total pseudoscience nonsense.
Most however were hesitant. Its tempting to say no on the basis of their recent and future programing said Mike Lowe a postdoc at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. But given the right opportunity and some serious soul searching I would have to consider it.
Id be worried about how it would appear to my colleagues said Rebecca Helm a graduate student at Brown University. For me there is very little incentive in collaborating with organizations that are likely to misrepresent me and my research.
I think this is completely tragic because organizations like Discovery also have a huge reach and I want to share science with a large audience. It makes what theyre doing even more hurtful and damaging Helm added.
Many were hopeful that the ship could be righted.I think its extremely important to keep trying said Victoria Vsquez Deputy Director at Ocean Research Foundation.Nothing reaches that sort of audience for sharks the ocean or any other wildlife. Consequently I think its important to be vocal and consistent with what we want out of Discovery and take every opportunity to change it.
If it were on a cool real science project then probably yes said Greg Gbur associate professor at UNC Charlotte. My policy with a lot of problematic publicationschannels is to vocally support the good and vocally blast the bad. Jim Gelsleichter Assistant Professor at University of North Florida echoed the sentiment. You cant stop trying he saidthe best that you can do is learn to speak to the media in a manner that reduces the chances that the unintended message will get out and select wisely.
Alas the path Discovery as set themselves upon leaves me with little to cling to. It seems unlikely that they will ever go back to being the trustworthy media company I used to watch religiously. Instead they seem hellbent on distorting science and fabricating content to capitalize on fear. Their sensationalized programming shoddy factchecking outright fictions and unethical PR have transformed them. Like P.T. Barnum and the showmen of old they happily sacrifice the truth to draw a bigger crowd and do whatever it takes for money and fame. Discovery no longer seems to care about the highest quality contentso long as they can become The Greatest Show On Earth.
Did you reach out to Discovery Have they made ANY statements about their pseudoscience programming
We KNOW what theyll say a lot of words that boil down to Were more interested in ratings than education now.
I agree with your opinion. Discovery must be given the opportunity to respond to this critical article otherwise the article itself is stooping to the same level as they purport Discover to be in that a journalist would be objectively trying to get both sides of the story if there is one. I was waiting for some declaration of the Discovery response as I read the article even if it was to say they were contacted several times and did not respond with comments. The comment that you KNOW what their response will be should be not acceptable.
Well I understand that they did issue an apology of sorts about the phony Lake Ontario shark video but it was short on apology and long on selfpromotion. And saying sorry we really didnt think that people would believe this and be frightened doesnt quite cut it.
Discovery Channel and History Channel have both abandoned educational programming and focused on catering to Red Necks and Tabloid readers. They have about as much interest in promoting science or showing educational content as the Playboy Channel. At least theres still NatGeo and PBS
It irritates me no end that most of the time History channel is playing some reality show or shows about aliens..sigh
Discovery all their channels and History have really gone down hill. Too much pseudo science UFO ghosts Big Foot etc crap. Also too many shows about people destroying nature instead of protecting or studying it. Even NatGeo and PBS have gone downhill too but have yet to reach the depths of History and Discovery. Such a shame.
I used to love both Discovery and History channel but I seldom watch either of them any more. They just dont include any programming that appeals to my familys interests at this point. Poor quality sensationalist drivel is just not as fascinating as the real world we love to explore.
Im a little disturbed that a science grad student quoted here considers Discovery to be a NEWS channel. 
In the meantime the ACTUAL news media may be almost as bad when it comes to sciencerelated wordsmithing whose sole purpose seems to be to frighten the public.
Who is worse Discovery with their latest Greatest SnowJob on Earth Or the Associated Presswho recently reported a hot spot was responsible for melting pavement at Yellowstone National Park How many members of the public were unnecessarily scared by THAT little bit of creative writing
So yell fire in a crowded theater and you go to jail. Lie about a shark being in a popular lake during the height of summer and you call it your st Amendment right for self promotion 
Thank you Discovery for showing us just how low youll stoop to gather ratings.
Why is this written from a perspective that implies Discovery Channel is somehow unique among media companies Did the writer miss the edited tapes and false imagery concocted for the Trayvon Martin case Journalists lie thats what they do and it doesnt matter whether the story they are inventing is about science crimes or politics.
I think it doesnt imply that Discovery is unique. Rather that it is particularly egregious when a channel that purports to be rooted in science and education documentary content is deliberately disseminating lies and promoting pseudoscience using subterfuge. 
The focus being on Discovery does not imply that no one else is guilty of similar conduct. The author is particularly incensed by this particular channels behavior most likely because it is her area of interest and expertise. As a sciencerelated article it would be straining applicability to venture into a broader territory regarding ethics of news outlets.
This isnt about a broad expose of journalistic ethics. This is specifically about scientific documentaries presented by Discovery Channel which are ostensibly providing factual data gathered and presented by experts but in fact are little more than elaborate sciencefiction schlockumentaries. 
We should take care not to infer that a lack of mention implies a lack of culpability. The article was focused not exclusionary.
John Hendricks the founder of Discovery Communications was unwilling to compromise scientific accuracy for ratings. However investors and managers who took over the company after Hendricks left daytoday management are primarily concerned about increasing viewership and thus revenues and accuracy has taken a back seat. Discovery Network now has reality television programmers running the show reality television being an oxymoron. Its unfortunate that accuracy is seen by Discoverys executives as an impediment to ratings.
ANYTHING seen and heard on TV needs to be vetted at Wikipedia. Grains of salt should be distributed to voters by the Feds at no charge. Intelligent voters are at an all time high. Check it out at MSNBC.
Wikipedia cites its sources its pretty easy to follow a link to a cited source or look up the source itself if its in a book or periodical.
Check it out at MSNBC Surely you are being sarcastic. MSNBC makes Discovery look like the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
Thank you ladies andor gents for being perspicacious. My faith in humanity has been bumped back into line.
om guys while i could be wrong im pretty sure robert lensch was being sarcastic.
The Discovery Channel has been swinging its beads under a lamp post and yelling Hey sailor for decades.
Didnt start out like that though. I used to watch it and Im a scientist. So no not multiple decades.
No scientist should cooperate with Discovery until by chance they apologize for and explicitly disavow this plus what happened last year.
I hope the province of Ontario and he affected lakeshore communities launch a class action suit against the Discovery Channel and put them out of business.
Id actually like to see the community of Hout Bay in South Africa sue them as well since both of the mockumentaries about Submarine and Megaladon took place there geez Discovery Channel couldnt you get at least a little creative and locate your second show somewhere else.
with their Shark Week just for the sake of ratings and revenues does notconstitute a right of free speech but is akin to yelling fire in a crowd theater
not trying to give them a pass here but a bull shark in freshwater is very well known. In other parts of the world theyre named after the water where theyre found. Zambezi Shark in Africa
theve been documented in the Mississippi as far north as Ill and the Potomac. 
This is very true the bull shark Zambezi can enter freshwater for many kilometers.you find it all along the south east coast of South Africa and Mozambique
Wow.a graduate student from Brown Rebecca Helm shows her true colors by casting aspersions on Fox News for distortion of her facts. I wonder if confirmation bias extends into her efforts as a scientist as well Shame on the author of this piece for allowing such politicizatio
What do you expect from grad students nowadays Theyre just repeating what theyve been taught for howevermany years. All the universities teach is liberalism. But then most professors are academics and have little or no real world experience in what they teach. For instance ask how many businessrelated professors have actually run a company with employees payrolls benefits and a product or service they have to market and sell. Not many.
Butbutwhat good is real world experience when you have the incalculable benefit of ideology Long live utopia
I have attempted masters degrees both of which were aborted due to funding cuts by presidents who wanted the money to fund military expenditures one in English education and one in history. I have always been taught by my professors to actively seek primary sources of informationdiaries letters and other firstperson accounts of eventsrather than accept secondary sources of information when writing about historic events and to be extremely careful about my sources and interpretation in English. Not all academics are extreme liberals. Most of them want to publish works that are of real quality.
Fox News Honestly they arent any better as far as accuracy is concerned as any other news network and their fair and unbiased reporting has a fairly obvious conservative bias.
I stopped taking the Discovery channel seriously when they aired that idiotic mermaid documentary. Unfortunately we are a gullible species and they are taking advantage of that fact.
These are not the only lies Discovery is promoting these days. They are constantly adding new shows which are only repeats of already shown episodes of popular series with only a few tweets added to make them new.
Why the surprise here This is not the first nonsense from Discovery Channel which is nothing more than a TV version of supermarket checkout tabloids. The program is consistent with the genre.
Almost every one of the very few times Ive watched programs that I thought might be interesting on the Discovery Channel or the History Channel Ive been disappointed by the sensationalistic approach theyve used in what were supposedly documentaries. As someone with a lifelong interest in both scientific subjects and in history not to mention also having a BA in the latter I would have been very interested in becoming a regular viewer if they had exhibited genuine professionalism in their productions. So they lost me as a part of their audience years ago.
Who owns the History Channels Discovery corporation I am deeply concerned they run day after day week after week conspiracy theory shows as well as ancient aliens. These shows are not history and they are harmful.
Actually if you take out some of the alien hoopla its very informative on ancient man. I have watched it and some things i have researched myself. It seems there are many myths writings drawings out there that suggest something was going on back in the day. You have to understand aliens is just their one perspective as there are many more that dont involve aliens. You always have to keep an open mind when looming into stuff no matter how silly it seems. You know the saying the truth is always stranger than fiction 
The Alien phenomena is part of the wider conspiracy theory phenomena. There are no alien invaders and there never have been but it is an enticing idea. Many years ago I carried camera equipment everywhere I went wanting to be prepared if I ever saw a UFO. Once I learned something about real astronomy I realized it was pointless. There may be aliens on other planets but they are most likely bacteria. And they are so far away we will never know they exist. All the socalled alien works can be best explained by real science. Those alien shows are fraudulent encouraging superstition and harmful conspiracy theories. They are not harmless.
I know humans dont fit in with evolution where everything else does. We are the only species who uses pressure points when we walk which is very inefficient which is why out bottom half wears put so fast I.e. hip implants etc. Its like something got lazy in designing us. Many ancient cultures have writings that some being with higher intelligence created us like the whole anninaki thing. History also shows throughout time we all of a sudden used new technology that came out of nowhere. Then you habe stories like promethius teaching man about fire. Then you habe other serpent gods who taught the maya and many others. Ironically Satan is a serpent like being and the church has been hell bent on destroying scientists work over the years like they were against technology. There are many biblical paintings showing people flying in the sky and the sun used to be behind jesus. If people can believe christianity then they can be lead to believe this because its pretty similar as far as out there goes. A man living in the clouds and we go to heaven. Since its the youngest religion on the planet then did everyone go to hell before jesus. That usually debunks it there because they all say they were not taught about it so they were ok. This to me sounds rediculous. Either your are saved or not lol. You have ancient sandskrits from India that read like star wars describing nuclear blasts and in Pakistan there is a place that looks like a bomb went off because of rock vitrification. I know people have imaginations but the things they wrote about they had no understanding of at all.
Start working at home with Google Its byfar the best job Ive had. Last Wednesday I got a brand new BMW since getting a check for this weeks past. I began this months ago and immediately was bringing home at least per hour. I work through this link go to tech tab for work detail
Unfortunately this pandering makes business sense. Ratings revenue for TV channels. For every scientifically literate person or skeptic out there there are probably half a dozen gullible folks who will watch anything that is sensational. It has always been a trait of humanity to quickly adhere to extreme or outrageous beliefs. This inclination may have had some survival value since it is still so prevalent. Thinkif you believe there are sharks in a body of water you may avoid it. Right away your chances of drowning real predators and water borne illnesses drop. You teach your children the same things. World without end amen. As a result there are far more ignorant people out there. The very curiosity that drives us to learn and find out the truth about the world would seem to get us killed more often than sheer gullibility. This depressing observation explains why even socalled scientific channels air such crapola. There is more money in WooHoo than the truth.
I wish they would actually interview a shark PALEONTOLOGIST cough cough to comment on fossil sharks
Please sign our petition to stop Shark Rodeo Cowboys in Palm Beach County Florida
Sorry if this has been said somewhere else the dissemblement and weasel words from Discover History etc aside the spreading of panic the loss of earnings aside if adults can be convinced The History Channel The Discovery Channel names implying that theyre an authority its even worse for children who can be even less able to discern fact from fiction but will at some point use it in say an exam question. Whilst were about it lets argue that its windy because the trees wave their branches around.
and lies which result in inflicting psychological harm is tantamount to yelling fire in a crowd movie theater. What the Boston University educated lawyers of the Discovery Channel have forgotten is their basic tort law governing such actions. I for one would like to see a class action law suit brought against the Discovery Channel for such programs as Shark Week particularly when dealing with falsehoods and innuendos such as sharks in the Great Lakes. Whether or not such legal action would compensate for the irreversible psychological damage inflicted upon millions of people is not as consequential as making the Discovery Channel spend millions of dollars correcting such mass communicated falsehoods and lies.Both avenues in their own right would be a start towards repairing the lives of individuals that have been exposed to such information. Moreover it would positively set an example to other firms thinking that such actions and activities delivered in a mass media setting depicting educational value as that performed by the Discovery Channel with their Shark Week just for the sake of ratings and revenues does notconstitute a right of free speech but is akin to yelling fire in a crowd theater and therefore subject to penalties and subsequent remedies to the fullest extent of the law.Therefore a class action suit would be the best place to start and thereby put an end to corporate practices such as those used by the Discovery Channel. Regards
psht greatest show on earth is at FACEBOOK DISCOVERY PROMOTES STOLEN VALOR and FACEBOOK UNOFFICIAL JOSEPH TETI pt barnum would be impressed even Brother Love showed up there was the GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH
And this is only the beginning. Animal Planets Mermaids show is misleading but had the highest viewership ever for the channel. Finding Bigfoot is another one.
Discovery channel is letting the world down and sacrificing ethics for profits while misinforming and misleading millions of people. Could the FTC fine them for false advertising 
Discovery History TLC et al have been in decline of quality for years. PBS and the BBC are the only places Ive seen decent scientific TV programs lately.
DISCOVERY PROMOTES STOLEN VALOR JOSEPH TETI FACEBOOK is an interesting site on this networks decisions on programing and actors check it out Mykel Hawke of Man Woman Wild Lost Survivors posts there .
I actually live on the mainland in Kingston right across from Wolfe Island and the idea that people were genuinely frightened by Discovery Channels stupid stunt is appalling not to mention the possibility of any economic hardship if people were afraid to go to the island. Paul Lewis the President and General Manager of Discovery Canada says that they didnt think that this would actually scare people that they thought that the reaction would be more is it or isnt it fake than hey a shark run away. Well when half of their programing real and fake is about shark attack and which sharks are the deadliest and they fake a video of a bull shark which according to one of their own shows is the most deadly in one of the Great Lakes how could they be so stupid to think that people werent going to be frightened of this Oh silly methey dont care. As long as people watch their programs. Well unless things change drastically I think that Ill be giving Shark Week a pass next year.
This is what happens when reckless people gain influence in the media industry. Make no mistake counterintuitive fraud is a form of moronic supply designed to generate more moronic demand. It is not real education. What makes it creepy is that it is by no means limited to monetary gain 
and lies which result in inflicting psychological harm is tantamount to yelling fire in a crowd movie theater. What the Boston University educated lawyers of the Discovery Channel have forgotten is their basic tort law governing such actions. I for one would like to see a class action law suit brought against the Discovery Channel for such programs as Shark Week particularly when dealing with falsehoods and innuendos such as sharks in the Great Lakes. Whether or not such legal action would compensate for the irreversible psychological damage inflicted upon millions of people is not as consequential as making the Discovery Channel spend millions of dollars correcting such mass communicated falsehoods and lies.Both avenues in their own right would be a start towards repairing the lives of individuals that have been exposed to such information. Moreover it would positively set an example to other firms thinking that such actions and activities delivered in a mass media setting depicting educational value as that performed by the Discovery Channel with their Shark Week just for the sake of ratings and revenues does notconstitute a right of free speech but is akin to yelling fire in a crowd theater and therefore subject to penalties and subsequent remedies to the fullest extent of the law.Therefore a class action suit would be the best place to start and thereby put an end to corporate practices such as those used by the Discovery Channel. Kindest Regards..
I read these comments and have to ask why so many hypocrites. When the channels we first out and educational where were you I was watching happily. I do agree that things have gone down hill but only self is to blame. If people werent so into the real world whos getting married whos dating who what celebrity is doing whom or what perhaps there would be pressure to try to drag you eyes away from these other networks. History may repeat itself but it is finite. One can only what G.Washington cross the Delaware so many times before you know he crossed it and it is no longer informative. You dont even applaud events like shark week for what it is. Informative. Those saying Discovery and others are moving away from educational TV. I say you are full of S.H.I.T. TV caters to those who watch it. If you want educational stop watching Jerry and Maury You want informative. Turn off the daytime soaps I see an event like shark week and I get disgusting with the human race. I see the over fishing and eradication of a species because a certain country with over Billion citizens cant stop procreating or refusing to adopt a vegetarian lifestyle. No the would rather keep making shark fin soup and fishing deeper and deeper and for larger prey like whales to feed they citizenry. Perhaps someone can send them a recipe for human penis and vagina soup Not only would that resolve the food problem it is a great way to resolve their overpopulation issues. I see groups that hate and haze a species because they are to stupid to get out of the water or they intentionally put self in a position of having a negative experience like entering shark territory with an open wound. So before condemning educational TV as catering to Rednecks tabloid readers who deserve an opportunity to view something educational perhaps one should turn off the porn channel or power down the laptop crack open a book read the paper or tune in to educational TV. You may find that even Rednecks and tabloid readers of which I am neither might be able to find something worth learning on the discovery networks. I know I learn plenty on hate intolerance deception corruption and all around assholelyness from supposedly informative news channels but I dont condemn those who watch aaa being supporters of Satan and that evil agenda a certain RNC real estate mogul running for presidency would fit this description as well as the very RNC supportive news channel that rhymes with Cox. Life is what u make of it and so is TV by your chosen viewing pleasure.
Dont watch any of these channels anymore because they have all left the road and are out in the swamps these days. Id rather watch a real documentary like on NGW
Dr. Christie Wilcox is a science writer and postdoctoral scholar at the University of Hawaii. She freelances for major media outlets including The New York Times and Popular Science. Her first book Venomous releases July Scientific AmericanFSG Books. To learn more about her life and work check out her webpage or follow her on Twitter Google or Facebook.
Sign up to get the latest science news delivered weekly right to your inbox
In a justreleased Discovery News piece Kieran Mulvaney November In the polar bear capital an uncertain future repeated three misleading statements about Western Hudson Bay polar bears that keep making the rounds despite the fact they have been laid to rest by the latest scientific reports on Lunn et al. Stapleton et al. . I reviewed these just a few weeks ago.
Climate change is causing the bays ice to melt earlier and freeze later causing bears to spend longer a shore.
Not true. Lunn and colleagues stated explicitly that there has been no trend in either break up or freezeup of WHB sea ice since . Although there has been large variability in dates that lack of trend that has continued to this year.
As a consequence Churchills polar bears are decreasing in number from approximately three decades ago to roughly now and in physical condition.
This deliberately misleading statement avoids the fact that the latest surveys found roughly the same number of bears in as in the estimate used by the IUCN Polar Bear Specialist Group for WHB is when different counting methods were taken into account. The bear estimate came from the markrecapture survey which left out a portion of the range that the aerial survey covered hence the official estimate of .
In addition there has been no scientific assessment of body condition or cub survival since before the last population estimate in polar bear experts keep telling journalists there are declines but have yet to produce any data to support those claims. The latest surveys did not collect data on body condition or cub survival.
Mulvaneys misinformation is almost certainly the result of spending time in Churchill with activist Polar Bears International spokesperson Steve Amstrup and activist climate scientist Katherine Hayhoe doing webcasts e.g. Challenges of communicating climate change.
Stop wanton slaughter s go up works for all species. S Beaufort polarbear s dipped due to thick spring seaice
Both statements are true and supported by scientific literature. But Hayhoe is all about climate communication which appears not to allow science to intrude.
Lunn N.J. Regehr E.V. Servanty S. Converse S. Richardson E. and Stirling I. . Demography and population assessment of polar bears in Western Hudson Bay Canada. Environment Canada Research Report. November . PDF HERE
Lunn N.J. Servanty S. Regehr E.V. Converse S.J. Richardson E. and Stirling I. . Demography and population assessment of polar bears in Western Hudson Bay Canada. Environment Canada Research Report. July . PDF HERE This appears to be the version submitted for publication
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
The Human Brain Documentary human brain documentary human brain structure and function human brain anatomy and physiology human brain project human brain and quantum physics human brain power human brain evolution in this video.
The human brain is the main organ of the human nervous system. It is located in the head protected by the skull. It has the same general structure as the brains of other mammals but with a more developed cerebral cortex. Large animals such as whales and elephants have larger brains in absolute terms but when measured using a measure of relative brain size which compensates for body size the quotient for the human brain is almost twice as large as that of a bottlenose dolphin and three times as large as that of a chimpanzee. Much of the size of the human brain comes from the cerebral cortex especially the frontal lobes which are associated with executive functions such as selfcontrol planning reasoning and abstract thought. The area of the cerebral cortex devoted to vision the visual cortex is also greatly enlarged in humans compared to other animals.
The human cerebral cortex is a thick layer of neural tissue that covers most of the brain. This layer is folded in a way that increases the amount of surface that can fit into the volume available. The pattern of folds is similar across individuals although there are many small variations. The cortex is divided into four lobes the frontal lobe parietal lobe temporal lobe and occipital lobe. Some classification systems also include a limbic lobe and treat the insular cortex as a lobe. Within each lobe are numerous cortical areas each associated with a particular function including vision motor control and language. The left and right sides of the cortex are broadly similar in shape and most cortical areas are replicated on both sides. Some areas though show strong lateralization particularly areas that are involved in language. In most people the left hemisphere is dominant for language with the right hemisphere playing only a minor role. There are other functions such as visualspatial ability for which the right hemisphere is usually dominant.
Despite being protected by the thick bones of the skull suspended in cerebrospinal fluid and isolated from the bloodstream by the bloodbrain barrier the human brain is susceptible to damage and disease. The most common forms of physical damage are closed head injuries such as a blow to the head a stroke or poisoning by a variety of chemicals which can act as neurotoxins such as ethanol alcohol. Infection of the brain though serious is rare because of the biological barriers which protect it. The human brain is also susceptible to degenerative disorders such as Parkinsons disease and Alzheimers disease mostly as the result of aging and multiple sclerosis. A number of psychiatric conditions such as schizophrenia and depression are thought to be associated with brain dysfunctions although the nature of these is not well understood. The brain can also be the site of brain tumors and these can be benign or malignant.
Discovery Science Channel The Human Brain HD Documentary Science Documentary Discovery Channel Documentary The Human Brain Documentary .
Discovery Science Channel The Human Brain HD Documentary Science Documentary Discovery Channel Documentary The Human Brain Documentary .
nova the minds big bang documentary. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature geographic .
the limits of human intelligence nova documentary. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national geographic .
Top Best HD Illuminati TopSecret Secret Security Sky Googlemap google youtube Uncensored nude certified Government CIA FBI .
Becoming Human First Steps NOVA full documentary. Thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution how eyes evolved nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of size nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of guts nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
in search of the missing link nova documentary. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
Full BBC Documentary Space Full BBC Documentary Space Full BBC Documentary Space Documentaries Full Length National Geographic .
The Secret Life of Your Body Clock full documentary. thanks for watching history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of speed nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national .
For more science and technology videos and documentaries please subscribe to my channel ScienceTechnology U
The Extraordinary Genius of Albert Einstein Full Documentary HD The core of the video is a workshop pedagogical on the Theory of Special Relativity as part of .
evolution the evolution of skin nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of jaws nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
ResolvedQuestion is a search engine for Resolved questions only. We have over questions indexed and nearly twice as many answers 
Covering news related to earth space technology animals humans archaeology and history the site will capture everything from planetary probes to newly discovered armies.
At a time when other news organizations are cutting back coverage in areas such as science and technology the new Discovery News underscores the companys longstanding commitment to sciences and fills a growing void with a trusted and captivating source of news.
The announcement of the site on Monday was accompanied by the release of a specially tailored iPone application retailing for ..
The designs of cars and transport trailers are fundamentally incompatible and it causes .
To cultivate a bit of financial freedom and exercise some creativity this resourceful .
The owner of this website www.genengnews.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beedaua.
The sixmonthold female calf was discovered on the Yamal peninsula of Russia and is thought to have died years ago.
The animals trunk and eyes are still intact and some of its fur remains on the body.
The cm ft ins tall kg Siberian specimen dates to the end of the last Ice Age when the great beasts were vanishing from the planet.
It was discovered by a reindeer herder in May this year. Yuri Khudi stumbled across the carcass near the Yuribei River in Russias YamalNenets autonomous district.
Last week an international delegation of experts convened in the town of Salekhard near the discovery site to carry out a preliminary examination of the animal.
The mammoth has no defects except that its tail was bit off said Alexei Tikhonov deputy director of the Zoological Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and a member of the delegation.
Some scientists hold out hope that well preserved sperm or other cells containing viable DNA could be used to resurrect the mammoth lineage.
Despite the inherent difficulties Dr Agenbroad remains optimistic about the potential for cloning.
That specimen failed to yield DNA of sufficient quality but some researchers believe it may only be a matter of time until the right find emerges from Siberia.
Bringing mammoths back from the dead could take the form of injecting sperm into the egg of a relative such as the Asian elephant to try to create a hybrid. 
Alternatively scientists could attempt to clone a pure mammoth by fusing the nucleus of a mammoth cell with an elephant egg cell stripped of its DNA.
But Dr Agenbroad warned that scientifically valuable Siberian mammoth specimens were being lost to a lucrative trade in ivory skin hair and other body parts. 
Local people are scouring the Siberian permafrost for remains to sell on and according to Dr Agenbroad more carcasses could be falling into the hands of dealers than are finding their way to scientists.
These products are primarily for collectors and it is usually illicit he explained. 
Originally it was for ivory now it is everything. You can now go on almost any fossil marketing website and find mammoth hair for an inch. It has grown beyond anyones imagination.
The Yamal mammoth is expected to be transferred to Jikei University in Tokyo Japan later this year.
A team led by Professor Naoki Suzuki will carry out an extensive study of the carcass including CT scans of its internal organs.
What caused their widespread disappearance at the end of the last Ice Age remains unclear but climate change overkill by human hunters or a combination of both could have been to blame.
One population of mammoths lived on in isolation on Russias remote Wrangel Island until about years ago.
The Human Brain Documentary human brain documentary human brain structure and function human brain anatomy and physiology human brain project human brain and quantum physics human brain power human brain evolution in this video.
The human brain is the main organ of the human nervous system. It is located in the head protected by the skull. It has the same general structure as the brains of other mammals but with a more developed cerebral cortex. Large animals such as whales and elephants have larger brains in absolute terms but when measured using a measure of relative brain size which compensates for body size the quotient for the human brain is almost twice as large as that of a bottlenose dolphin and three times as large as that of a chimpanzee. Much of the size of the human brain comes from the cerebral cortex especially the frontal lobes which are associated with executive functions such as selfcontrol planning reasoning and abstract thought. The area of the cerebral cortex devoted to vision the visual cortex is also greatly enlarged in humans compared to other animals.
The human cerebral cortex is a thick layer of neural tissue that covers most of the brain. This layer is folded in a way that increases the amount of surface that can fit into the volume available. The pattern of folds is similar across individuals although there are many small variations. The cortex is divided into four lobes the frontal lobe parietal lobe temporal lobe and occipital lobe. Some classification systems also include a limbic lobe and treat the insular cortex as a lobe. Within each lobe are numerous cortical areas each associated with a particular function including vision motor control and language. The left and right sides of the cortex are broadly similar in shape and most cortical areas are replicated on both sides. Some areas though show strong lateralization particularly areas that are involved in language. In most people the left hemisphere is dominant for language with the right hemisphere playing only a minor role. There are other functions such as visualspatial ability for which the right hemisphere is usually dominant.
Despite being protected by the thick bones of the skull suspended in cerebrospinal fluid and isolated from the bloodstream by the bloodbrain barrier the human brain is susceptible to damage and disease. The most common forms of physical damage are closed head injuries such as a blow to the head a stroke or poisoning by a variety of chemicals which can act as neurotoxins such as ethanol alcohol. Infection of the brain though serious is rare because of the biological barriers which protect it. The human brain is also susceptible to degenerative disorders such as Parkinsons disease and Alzheimers disease mostly as the result of aging and multiple sclerosis. A number of psychiatric conditions such as schizophrenia and depression are thought to be associated with brain dysfunctions although the nature of these is not well understood. The brain can also be the site of brain tumors and these can be benign or malignant.
Discovery Science Channel The Human Brain HD Documentary Science Documentary Discovery Channel Documentary The Human Brain Documentary .
Discovery Science Channel The Human Brain HD Documentary Science Documentary Discovery Channel Documentary The Human Brain Documentary .
nova the minds big bang documentary. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature geographic .
the limits of human intelligence nova documentary. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national geographic .
Top Best HD Illuminati TopSecret Secret Security Sky Googlemap google youtube Uncensored nude certified Government CIA FBI .
Becoming Human First Steps NOVA full documentary. Thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution how eyes evolved nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of size nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of guts nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
in search of the missing link nova documentary. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
Full BBC Documentary Space Full BBC Documentary Space Full BBC Documentary Space Documentaries Full Length National Geographic .
The Secret Life of Your Body Clock full documentary. thanks for watching history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of speed nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national .
For more science and technology videos and documentaries please subscribe to my channel ScienceTechnology U
The Extraordinary Genius of Albert Einstein Full Documentary HD The core of the video is a workshop pedagogical on the Theory of Special Relativity as part of .
evolution the evolution of skin nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
evolution the evolution of jaws nova documentary HD. thanks for watching. history life discovery science technology tech learning education national nature .
ResolvedQuestion is a search engine for Resolved questions only. We have over questions indexed and nearly twice as many answers 
SEE MORE AND SAVESee or more exhibits in one visit and save up to with combo ratesUpgrade online or inquire at the box office upon visiting.
SUMMER HOURSMORE TIME TO SEE EXHIBITS YOU LOVEDiscovery Times Square is open daily at am through Monday September . Beat the daily rush and see the exhibits you love ahead of the crowds.
SOCIAL MEDIA Like us follow us and watch us for insight and offers into all things Discovery Times Square
MAILING LISTBe the first to know about exclusive presales ticket offers and news updates
Drug Discovery Today delivers informed and highly current reviews for the discovery community. The magazine addresses not only the rapid scientific developments in drug discovery associated technologies but also the management commercial and regulatory issues that increasingly play a part in how RD is planned structured and executed.
Drug Discovery Today delivers informed and highly current reviews for the discovery community. The magazine addresses not only the rapid scientific developments in drug discovery associated technologies but also the management commercial and regulatory issues that increasingly play a part in how RD is planned structured and executed.
AudioSlides are short minute presentations in which the author explains their paper in their own words.
This application shows readers which data repositories have data for the article that they are reading and gives oneclick access to that data.
This application lets readers explore data and other quantitative results submitted with the article providing insights into and access to data that is otherwise buried in plots.
This application presents readers with additional information on chemical compounds that were studied in the article by displaying records from the NCBI PubChem database.
Register your interests and receive email alerts tailored to your needs
Advertising Careers Feedback Site map Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy
Cookies are used by this site. To decline or learn more visit our Cookies page.
professionals and roleplayers to share their knowledge and expertise but will
and Brand Lab at Cornell University. He is author of over academic articlesbeen published in the worlds top marketing medical and nutrition journals.
the worlds topranked cyclists and a member of Lance Armstrongs inner circle.the Olympicshe was found guilty of doping and exiled from the sport. In
Vitality Group in the US. He previously headed global health at the RockefellerGlobal Initiative the World Economic Forum the National Institute of Healths
Kingdom as well as the longterm savings and investment market and shortterm
and corporate wellness initiatives in South Africa the United Kingdom the UnitedStates of America and China. The global Vitality membership base now exceeds .
to enhance and protect their lives through financial products that clients need
Adrian Gorecraig nosselvitality summitWellnesssissamorne du plessistyler hamiltondr derek yachprof tim noakesbrian wansinksandton convention centre
Discovery Vitality hosted Tyler Hamilton at the Discovery Vitality Summit that took place from August at the Sandton Conventio.
You havent entered a correct link to your helper.html file for your Hosted Newsroom. Go to Publish and complete the steps.
Every Summer DiscoveryDiscovery Internships student receives the following amazing benefits from our partners at Collegewise the largest and most highly regarded college counseling service in the US.
The Challenger explosion was one of those wherewereyouthen moments in American history millions of TV viewers watched in horror on January as the space vehicle burst apart killing all seven astronauts on board including the first teacher in space Christa McAuliffe whod been added to the crew because space travel was considered that safe she was going to provide terrific PR for the space program by teaching some classes to school children from space. 
I wish the people would quit blaming orings and begin to look elsewhere. THERE WAS A PUBLISHED.
Ive seen this and its a shame that it pales in comparison to the Challenger Black Llist.
I sure hope whoever wrote the screenplay for this docudrama included the part about the NASA engineer.
I sure hope whoever wrote the screenplay for this docudrama included the part about the NASA engineer who came to Feynmans house prior to the hearing and TOLD HIM ABOUT THE CAUSE OF THE CHALLENGER EXPLOSION LIKELY BEING ATTRIBUTED TO THE FAILURE OF THE ORING GASKET DUE TO COLD TEMPERATURES AT LAUNCH.
To Feynmans credit he has freely admitted that the Oring experiment he did with the ice water at the now infamous televised press conference did in fact not originate from him at all but rather a theory that he merely adopted based on what this engineer told him at his house a few days before the hearing.
Ive seen this and its a shame that it pales in comparison to the Challenger Black Llist script from a few years back even though they are structured very similarly.
I wish the people would quit blaming orings and begin to look elsewhere. THERE WAS A PUBLISHED DEGREE LIMIT on the SRB that was knowingly and willfully violated. In spite of many system flaws there were LOTS of people who should have stopped that launch and could have.
HOLLYWOOD Design Hollywood Chamber of Commerce. The Hollywood Sign is a trademark and intellectual property of Hollywood Chamber of Commerce. All Rights Reserved.
Lisa Warren. The Sutters Mill meteorite a daytime fireball streaks across the California morning sky.
The June edition of Discover Magazine refers to the NASA Meteor Counter app though this has been updated to the newer AMS Meteors App. Check it out to collect awesome data on meteors fireballs and meteorites.
A fireball exploded over a parking lot shortly after daybreak in April of showering the area near Sutters Mill the original site of the California Gold Rush with new treasure. Meteorite hunters and scientists rushed to discover the first stones from the meteor known as the Sutters Mill meteorite in the parking lot of a local park. Though to be fair planetary scientist Marc Fries of NASA technically found it first.
To find and gather data on meteorites scientists have always relied heavily on the eyewitness reports of citizen scientists a process slow and fraught with the faults of human memory. But Mike Hankey the operations manager at the American Meteor Society AMS is changing that. Hankey is a web developer by trade but hes now using his technological wizardry to hunt for fallen stars. In Hankey created an enhanced web app where citizen scientists can record observations like their coordinates and the position of the meteor in the sky information scientists and meteorite hunters need to find meteorites. The old ways of reporting are changing Hankey says with technology we can reinvent meteor observing.
Marc Fries says he loves these AMS reports and he uses them regularly. When hes looking for meteoritedropping fireballs Fries says Ill periodically scroll through and look for ones that are promising. In Hankey and Fries used the data to triangulate the position of the Sutters Mill meteorite. At best Hankey says we can triangulate a D trajectory to a couple of kilometers. With the search narrowed scientists begin scanning the area on Doppler radars used to detect clouds and weather patterns for clouds kicked up by meteorites at the time reported by citizen scientists and the place calculated by the trajectory. Et voila you find a meteorite within to hours of a fall says Hankey.
It worked perfectly for Sutters Mill. Fries says that he pulled out the eyewitness reports and looked at the radar data and there it was. And the web apps citizen science reports worked to find three other meteorites that year too. Now Hankey is ready to take the next step in opening up the sky to citizen science by mobilizing into iPhone and Android with a phone app just launched this month in the Apple store. The app is an evolution of both the AMS fireball reporting web app and an older meteor counting app designed by NASA. Hankey says the old apps were good but they were missing a lot of everything. NASAs Meteor Counter could only capture the number of meteors and their brightness in a night. With a swipe the new AMS Meteors app can now get the direction frequency and type of meteors helping NASA further evaluate the relative risk meteroids can have to spacecraft.
And when it came to fireball reports Hankey says people still had trouble with the elevation and velocity of a fireball when reporting on the AMS webpage. Youre not going to know the difference between and . Its a hard thing to judge. But the phone knows you just have to point it into the sky Hankey says. Well be able to get the elevation azimuth angles longitude latitude of the person and all this stuff right off the phone device. With a wave of the phone the app increases the accuracy of every aspect of fireball reporting making what Fries calls the vagaries in peoples recollection a thing of the past.
Fries says all this information can both help scientists trace a meteorites journey through space to its origin and more quickly to its location on Earth. Fresh meteorite falls are some of the most valuable and rarest windows into the solar system. Most meteorites are stumbled upon long after their fall and much of the evidence from their former lives have already weathered away sometimes over hundreds of years and sometimes in just days. Meteorite scientist Peter Jenniskens of NASA recovered parts of the Sutters Mill meteorite only hours after the fall allowing the scientists to identify a mineral called oldhamite that had never been seen in meteorites before. If Jenniskens hadnt arrived quick enough to rescue a few meteorites heavy rains would have washed away any trace of the oldhamite at Sutters Mill.
Mike Hankey. A .g fall from the Sutters Mill meteorite valued at . Hankey and Fries were able to take the witness reports from web version of the AMS Meteors app to locate the position of these meteorites.
Being able to find meteorites comes with other bonuses too. Meteorites fetch a hefty price on the rock market. Hankey says his group picked up a .g meteorite at Sutters Mill which is valued at around . But Hankey and Fries both say its not about the bounty. And while Hankey says meteorite falls like Sutters Mill is one of the most scientifically like amazing meteorites almost ever its not just about the science either. Its the whole adventure Hankey says. Its the excitement.
Though Fries likes the hunt too he really loves getting the chance to teach planetary science to the locals. Its absolutely wonderful Fries says. The level of interest is astronomical. You get really excited and enthusiastic Its spectacular one of the best science education opportunities there is. Fries says when a meteor comes to peoples neighborhoods they want to know what that thing was. They want to get their hands and eyes on it and pretty soon their phones too.
To get involved with the American Meteor Society go to the SciStarter Portal for this project.
I think that after doing all the work for these people making money out of this that the sender of the information is entitled to share in the bounty 
I found a meteorite about twenty years ago while relic hunting with a metal detector. It is an iron meteorite about the size of a small tennis ball but larger than an egg. Heavy and super dense. A magnet will hold it in a death grip. Does this one have any value 
Angus Chen is the managing editor for the SciStarter Blog network which includes the Discover magazine Citizen Science Salon blog and the Public Library of Sciences Cit Sci blog. And hes a freelance reporter and producer at WNYC Public Radio on The Takeaway where he covers general assignment news. You can also read his work with Science magazine. He was once a scientist studying geology and ecology but now spends his days typing and scribbling and sketching furiously.
Sign up to get the latest science news delivered weekly right to your inbox
Our aim is to promote accurate evidencebased reporting on science and technology by helping the media work more closely with the scientific community.
The discovery of tiny ripples in the fabric of space and time is causing big waves in national and global media.
This morning scientists from the LIGO announced that they had detected gravitational waves confirming predictions based on Einsteins theory of relativity proposed years ago.
Read more about the discovery and expert reaction from New Zealand scientists here.
This image made available by NASA on July shows a combination of images captured by the New Horizons spacecraft with enhanced colors to show differences in the composition and texture of Plutos surface. NASAJHUAPLSwRIAP
Like millions of science buffs around the world I experienced the thrill of discovery as the New Horizons spacecraft started to send back the first strikingly clear photos of the dwarf planet Pluto. What a testament to humankinds capabilities It was only just about years ago that the Wright brothers succeeded in any kind of sustained flight and now here we are exploring celestial objects at the very edge of our solar system.
Members of the New Horizons science team react to seeing the spacecrafts last and sharpest image of Pluto before closest approach later in the day Tuesday July at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory in Laurel Md. Bill IngallsNASAAP
This is significant representation. According to a study by the U.S. Department of Commerce about percent of all STEM jobs are held by women. Of those women who decide to pursue a career in science the STEM workplace is often not conducive to retaining its female professionals. A book published by the Association for Women in Science Equitable Solutions for Retaining a Robust STEM Workforce cited a survey funded by the Elsevier Foundation of more than researchers worldwide which found that only about half the women working in a STEM profession were happy with their worklife balance. Additionally many individuals felt their work environments were outmoded and did not reflect the realities of todays workforce such as dualcareer professionals and singleparent households. 
The efforts by NASA to diversify its workforce to include more women and minorities is a great example that it can be done. The NASA Women and Girls initiative provides terrific resources for mentors and program ideas as does NASAs affiliation with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Open Innovation Program Manager Beth Beck who has worked at NASA for years and is part of the New Horizons team is one of several female NASA professionals who routinely advocates for STEM programs for girls in science and encourages parents to use the wonder of space and the New Horizons mission as a way to engage their children in science. 
TechHire is a bold multisector initiative and call to action to empower Americans with the skills they need according to the White House. White House
Diversity in the STEM workforce has certainly come a long way in recent decades but theres still much room for improvement. Corporate support of STEM education initiatives at the K level has been encouraging business leaders realize they need a STEM educated workforce if they are to remain competitive and there are some phenomenal programs currently available to schools free of charge. Most local museums and parks have summer study opportunities for students and various government departments offer free classroom materials. Many are designed specifically to encourage more diversity in STEMbased careers such as the Obama administrations TechHire initiative and the more recent Demo Day.
But for the long term its important that all students should be encouraged to become scientifically literate and to think about science as an integral part of their lives not something just practiced in a lab by people in white coats. The New Horizons missions has shown us many things not the least of which is that good science is the framework around which just about everything in our world revolves. Its an incredible technological achievement to launch an object the size of a grand piano loaded with the most sophisticated equipment currently available at an object more than billion miles away and have it arrive on time and on target. In addition to the science such a mission is also a valuable lesson in teamwork international collaboration patience adaptability and commitment. 
Of course none of this would be possible without the years of research and resulting published papers that laid the foundation for this mission. Researchers are the unsung heroes behind the space missions. They are the group that works tirelessly to separate science fact from science fiction. At one time women making major contributions to science would have been considered science fiction. Now the women of the New Horizons mission as well as the thousands of their female colleagues currently dedicating their lives to science research in space and other disciplines are turning women in science into fact. 
STEM jobs STEM education NASA working women science 
This special report is U.S. News World Reports hub for news and information about science technology engineering and math education and employment. See more U.S. News special reports.
Two police officers are on leave following the fatal shooting of a black man outside a Baton Rouge store.Outrage over video 
Family and supporters of Alton Sterling held a heartbreakingly emotional press conference in the wake of the mans reported death at the hands of two Louisiana cops. The teen son of yearold Sterling broke down into sobs Wednesday morning as his mother lamented to reporters that shell never be able to help him unsee the moment his own father was shot dead. A video that purports to show Baton Rouge police officers fatally shoot Sterling while hes pinned to the ground has sparked outrage and protests in the Bayou State and beyond.
They invested in stocks in order to generate an additional income. Discover how they did it.
On Saturday Hillary Clinton spent three and a half hours being interviewed by the FBI over the private email server she used as Secretary of State. Attorney General Loretta Lynch has revealed that she will defer to the eventual FBI decision on whether or not to indict Clinton but the prospect of an actual indictment doesnt seem likely. Regardless of the projected outcome the controversy remains lodged in the public consciousness and WikiLeaks celebrated Independence Day by publishing of Clintons emails.
A South American airline is asking its employees to be on the lookout for a former Guantanamo Bay detainee who was resettled in Uruguay after being freed by U.S. authorities. Uruguayan authorities have insisted for weeks that he is visiting neighboring Brazil and that as a refugee he is entitled to leave Uruguay but the Brazilian government has said there is no record of Dhiab entering the country. Danilo Alves a spokesman for Colombiabased Avianca Airlines in Sao Paulo told The Associated Press on Monday that the alert was issued internally to employees but declined to give any more details.
Party members especially those in leadership roles need to ensure they keep their family members on tight leash to prevent corruption the official newspaper of Chinas ruling Communist Party said on Tuesday after a highprofile jailing. A Chinese court on Monday jailed a former top aide to retired president Hu Jintao for life after finding him guilty of taking bribes illegally obtaining state secrets and abuse of power during a secret trial. The party announced its investigation into the onetime aide to Hu Ling Jihua in December .
Saturated fats in butter lard and red meat raise the risk of early death but replacing these with fats like olive oil can offer substantial health benefits a threedecade study confirmed on Tuesday. The research involving more than people was published in the Journal of the American Medical Association JAMA Internal Medicine. There has been widespread confusion in the biomedical community and the general public in the last couple of years about the health effects of specific types of fat in the diet said lead author Dong Wang a doctoral candidate at Harvard Universitys T.H. Chan School of Public Health.
You get unlimited access to Amazons entire catalog of more than million eBooks and thousands of audio books on any device any time anywhere. The services normally costs . per month which is already an insane value but today only Prime members can get even better deals thanks to Amazons weeklong Prime Day sales event.
Miranda Hernandezs grandparents lost everything when they fled Cuba in the s. Right off the bat Im going to say honestly its not that bad she said on Thursday afternoon as she visited the Havana apartment where her mother lived as a young girl. The declaration of U.S. detente with Cuba was made possible by the softening of a hard line held for half a century by Floridas powerful CubanAmerican community.
Family members of a yearold black man fatally shot by police in Baton Rouge La. broke down in tears Wednesday as they mourned the loss of a father and pledged to fight for justice. Supporters of Alton Sterling who was killed early Tuesday while police apparently pinned him down outside a convenience store called for the police chief to be fired or resign and urged residents to boycott the local mall after the fatal shooting. I for one will not rest or not allow him to be swept in the dirt said Quinyetta McMillon the mother of Sterlings yearold son.
The controversy over Hillary Clintons use of a private email server while secretary of state may soon be over. Lynch distanced herself from the storm by revealing that she would defer to the FBIs eventual desired outcome but everyone even WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange admitted that an indictment was unlikely. WikiLeaks did release emails which featured a trove of cutandpasted media articles letters sent to Clinton and other flotsam.
Facing a potentially damaging ruling from an international court in its dispute with the Philippines China has cranked up a public relations offensive to defend its stance in the court of world opinion. The sledgehammersubtle PR campaign came to Washington on Tuesday with a former top Chinese official warning that Beijing will reject the tribunals authority and cautioning the United States to tread carefully in the contested waters. Speaking at a conference at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Dai urged countries not to carry out the courts decision and warned that his government would not tolerate any further provocation from the Philippines.
Outrage spread on Tuesday after a deadly suicide bombing at Islams secondholiest site in the Saudi city of Medina one of three attacks in the kingdom on a single day. Religious and political leaders across the Middle East denounced the attack near the Prophets Mosque that left four dead and came as Muslims prepare for the feast this week marking the end of the holy month Ramadan. There were no claims of responsibility for Mondays bombings in Medina Jeddah and the eastern city of Qatif but the Islamic State group had urged its supporters to carry out attacks during Ramadan. The jihadist group has claimed responsibility for or been blamed for a wave of shootings and bombings during the holy month this year including in Orlando Bangladesh Istanbul and Baghdad. The suicide bombing in Medina came during sunset prayers at the mosque where Islams Prophet Mohammed is buried and which attracts millions of pilgrims each year. AFP See more newsrelated photo galleries and follow us on Yahoo News Photo Tumblr .
Golden State Warriors star and NBA MVP Stephen Curry surprised some very lucky basketball campers after impersonating a Girl Scout. The team posted a video of Curry knocking on doors and shouting Im selling Girl Scout cookies One young basketball camper opening the door was so stunned that he fell to the floor. The video continues with Curry knocking on another door but this time posing as a pizza delivery man.
Police were calling the man a person of interest and not a suspect and they provided few details on what connects him to the attacks on the three men. Witnesses saw the person of interest near where the first attack occurred on Saturday and he was captured on surveillance video inside a local store wearing a backpack San Diego police Captain David Nisleit said in a phone interview. In that first attack the body of a homeless man was discovered on fire between a highway and train tracks in the Mission Bay area of San Diego police said.
Crisishit Venezuela is willing to restore diplomatic relations with the United States after a sixyear freeze the socialist government said Monday. The foreign ministrys announcement came two weeks after top US diplomat Thomas Shannon met with Venezuelas President Nicolas Maduro in a bid to help tackle the countrys economic and political crisis. The two countries have not exchanged ambassadors since due to tensions between Washington and the government of Hugo Chavez Maduros mentor and late predecessor.
Over the weekend Tesla quietly released its sales figures for the second quarter of and the results were somewhat disappointing. By the time the curtain closed on this years second quarter Tesla managed to sell vehicles. Obviously compensating for declining Model S sales is the Model X. Despite a number of widely reported quality control problems with Teslas crossover SUV the company last quarter sold Model X vehicles nearly double what it sold during the previous quarter when production truly begin to ramp up.
Hightech thieves use a laptop to hack into a cars electronic ignitions. And today sect by stealing a car goes high tech in police and insurance companies say some thieves are using laptops to hack into the ignition systems. And steal vehicles other
Torrential rain has sparked deadly floods along the Yangtze River inflicting a rising death toll over the past few days and sweeping away key transport networks across central and eastern China. State officials placed the number of fatalities at with another people missing as of Sunday according to the South China Morning Post.
The Baton Rouge police chief says the black man who was fatally shot by police was armed but there are still questions about what happened. The police chief made his comments just an hour after the U.S. Justice Department said it had opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting death of yearold Alton Sterling. The man who says he shot video of police fatally shooting a black man in Baton Rouge says he has been distributing the footage on social media as a service to the community.
From Popular MechanicsLast Tuesday in Alaska over million tons of rock collapsed from a foot high mountainside in Glacier Bay National Park. The debris spread out over six miles onto glacier below and produced a huge cloud of dust. It rivals
The presidential election has left many Americans feeling concerned about the country. In the survey said they had an unfavorable opinion of Democrat Hillary Clinton while had an unfavorable opinion of Republican Donald Trump. Other surveys have generally shown the two have the highest unfavorable ratings of any presidential candidates since .
The toxicology report said she had multiple drugs in her system including pain medication prescribed to an Arthur King believed to be an alias used by Carrey. In her suicide note White left the funeral arrangements up to Carrey.
A firework that exploded and seriously injured the foot of a yearold who stepped on it in Central Park probably was created by someone with a basic knowledge of chemistry but not designed to intentionally hurt people police said. The homemade explosive that went off Sunday probably was designed to make a large noise maybe make a flash said Lt. Mark Torre commanding officer of the New York Police Departments bomb squad. The a.m. blast on the east side of Central Park could be heard for blocks leaving some with the belief that it was part of a July Fourth celebration.
By Lesley Wroughton and Margarita Antidze TBILISI Reuters Secretary of State John Kerry told exSoviet Georgia that the United States would help it bolster its army as he reassured a close U.S. ally days before a NATO summit expected to focus on the threat a resurgent Russia poses. Kerry on his first visit to Georgia as Secretary of State made the commitment ahead of a NATO summit in Warsaw on Friday at which members of the Western military alliance plan to announce action to deter possible Russian military aggression.
NASAs Curiosity rover on Mars is busily grinding out science data and has likely relayed some provocative findings but mums the word from scientists on the mission.
At the epicenter of all the speculation is that Curiositys Sample Analysis at Mars SAM instrument has gulped in Martian soil and regurgitated exciting news.
John Grotzinger lead mission investigator for the Curiosity rover set the rumors in motion during an interview with NPR last week saying Were getting data from SAM this data is gonna be one for the history books. Its looking really good.
Whatever historymaking news there is to report Curiosity scientists are expected to cough up the goods at this years American Geophysical Union AGU meeting in San Francisco to be held from Dec. to Dec. .
On the AGU agenda is a discussion of Curiositys search for organic molecules on Mars with its Gas ChromatographMass Spectrometer a key instrument to help explore the surface and subsurface of Mars seeking traces of prebiotic or biological activity.
As expected readers in the blogosphere have already chimed in with what they believe Curiosity has found their guesses so far have included a fossil a black monolith Tang and Jimmy Hoffa. Top Attempts to FindLifeon Mars
Most scientists contacted by SPACE.com believe that Curiositys SAM has detected organic chemical compounds. Still some experts caution that the rovers finding may be overhyped.
This is going to be a disappointment said Chris McKay a NASA space scientist at Ames Research Center at Moffett Field Calif. The press description of the
But James Garvin chief scientistat NASAs Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt Md. and a member of Curiositys Mars Science Laboratory MSL science team had a different take.
What John Grotzinger was saying as our very capable project scientist on MSL is exactly the case Garvin said. The analytical payload on MSL in particular SAM as a suite has been making unprecedented measurements of solid material samples with incredible implications about Mars but which require as in all science demonstration of reproducibility and adequacy of calibrationvalidation.
Curiosity landed inside Mars hugeGale Crateron Aug. beginning a twoyear mission to determine if the Red Planet could ever have hosted microbial life. The rover carries different instruments but SAM is the heart of Curiosity taking up more than half of its science payload by weight.
Garvin said the SAM team plus the wider MSL science team including Grotzinger are working industriously to have consistent results for the world to revel in as soon as possible.
It is more akin to waiting for test results from ones doctor we want to be sure they are valid and properly interpreted and explained Garvin added.
Unlike imaging and related experiments highly sensitive results from SAMs instruments which include mass spectrometers tunable diode laser spectrometers and gas chromatographs require very great care in calibration validation and interpretation Garvin emphasized.
MSL with its Curiosity rover really is analogous to the Hubble Space Telescope in the impact it can and will have we just have to be patient Garvin said.
Similar to the Hubble Space Telescope Garvin added We have to be patient to use our tools to look at the right stuff. Stay tuned Mars will not disappoint and nor will MSL.
Also awaiting the word from the Curiosity science team is Michael Mumma a planetary scientist also at NASA Goddard where he is founding director of the Goddard Center for Astrobiology.
It clearly relates to the first soil sample analyzed by SAM. I suspect the delay means that a second sample is being analyzed to confirm findings from the first Mumma said.
Remember that TLS will sample gas water methane from pyrolyzed soil while SAMs GCMS Viking Gas Chromatographmass Spectrometersamples the mass spectrum Mumma said.
In Mummas view blockbuster findings could include the discovery of a major release of methane from pyrolyzed soil with measurements of certain intriguing chemical variations called isotopologues. A finding of complex hydrocarbons molecules containing hydrogen and carbon or of a type of chemical compound called polymers would also be a major discovery.
I think the minimum finding that could get Grotzinger to describe it as historic is complex organic compounds said Gilbert Levin an adjunct professor at Arizona State University in Tempe.
Levin was a lifedetection experimenter on NASAs Viking mission to Mars in . Levin and coexperimenter Patricia Ann Straat led the Viking Labeled Release LR investigation which returned data from Mars indicating the presence of microbial life the team asserts.
I have already pointed out that the Viking PR The Viking biology package also consisted of the Pyrolytic Release experiment PR showed that simple organics are continually being formed on Mars so they would be no big deal for Curiosity Levin told SPACE.com. I doubt SAM could have detected proof of living microorganisms. But slowly ineluctably NASA is being dragged into the mire of life on Mars and will ultimately maybe soon have to reverse its opinion on the results of the Viking LR.
If Curiosity has found organics Levin said it will thereby confirm that the GCMSwas not sensitive enough to rule out the positive findings of the Viking LR.
The failure of the Viking GCMS is the only remaining obstacle to acceptance of the Mars LR having detected existing microbial life. That obstacle would be removed by the Curiosity finding of organics. Whether that will turn the consensus in favor of life I do not know but any rationale against it would be difficult to maintain Levin concluded.
Ultimately the world will have to wait just a little bit longer to find out what Curiosity knows.
Curiositys science team is analyzing data from SAMs soil inspection but not ready to discuss yet said Guy Webster a spokesman for the Curiosity Mars rover science team at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena Calif.
This is no change from the policy with past results from the mission such as SAMs atmosphere analysis or CheMins soil sample analysis Webster told SPACE.com. The scientists want to gain confidence in the findings before taking them outside of the science team.
Webster said that Grotzinger was delighted about the quality and range of information coming in from SAM and similarly delighted by results at other points during the mission so far.
The characterization of new findings as earthshaking did not come from anyone on the missions science team Webster said.
Leonard David has been reporting on the space industry for more than five decades. He is a winner of last years National Space Club Press Award and a past editorinchief of the National Space Societys Ad Astra and Space World magazines. He has written for SPACE.com since .
The outputs of research generate new knowledge about the oceans. Transferring scientific knowledge to support business and industry is an important part of our NOC remit.
Our research is intended to tackle the big environmental issues facing the world. Research priorities will include the oceans role in climate change sea level change and the future of the Arctic Ocean.
The University of Southampton and the University of Liverpool both offer a range of highly regarded undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in Ocean and Earth Science.
For any media or press enquiries to the National Oceanography Centre follow the more link below. Please note the centres press office is staffed from to Monday to Friday.
The creation of a wider association of Universities and research institutions to support wider engagement of the NOC with the marine science community is now underway.
The National Oceanographic Library is a national resource for the UK marine science community.
Copyright The National Oceanography Centre NOC the Natural Environment Research Council NERC or the University of Southampton owns copyright of the material available at this site unless otherwise stated. All rights reserved.
professionals and roleplayers to share their knowledge and expertise but will
and Brand Lab at Cornell University. He is author of over academic articlesbeen published in the worlds top marketing medical and nutrition journals.
the worlds topranked cyclists and a member of Lance Armstrongs inner circle.the Olympicshe was found guilty of doping and exiled from the sport. In
Vitality Group in the US. He previously headed global health at the RockefellerGlobal Initiative the World Economic Forum the National Institute of Healths
Kingdom as well as the longterm savings and investment market and shortterm
and corporate wellness initiatives in South Africa the United Kingdom the UnitedStates of America and China. The global Vitality membership base now exceeds .
to enhance and protect their lives through financial products that clients need
Adrian Gorecraig nosselvitality summitWellnesssissamorne du plessistyler hamiltondr derek yachprof tim noakesbrian wansinksandton convention centre
Discovery Vitality hosted Tyler Hamilton at the Discovery Vitality Summit that took place from August at the Sandton Conventio.
You havent entered a correct link to your helper.html file for your Hosted Newsroom. Go to Publish and complete the steps.
The program however is just a documentarystyle science fiction program but that has not stopped thousands of people from instantly believing that mermaids do in fact exist.
Social networks have been lit up with discussions on the topic and thousands have argued whether mermaids are real or not.
It is believed by some that the shows description was purposely made obscure to cause such a misunderstanding. In the description the program makers acknowledge that the content was science fiction but also added that the content was based on some real life events. This caused a debate over which parts of the program were real and which were made up.
However the Department of Commerces National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA has previously clarified the confusion releasing a statement on its site stating that no evidence of aquatic humanoids has ever been found.
IF. Its a fact that polar bears evolved from the brown bear categorized now as fullfledged marine mammals. THEN. Is it possible that apes split off from terrestrial apes millions of years ago due to coastal flooding and retreated into the water evolving into aquatic creatures somewhat related to humans IF. Human babies instinctively hold their breath when placed under water before they walk something baby primates cant do. THEN. Were humans ever capable of having an aquatic state IF. Dolphins seem to have a unique kinship with humans and possess a learned trait of cooperatively hunting with humans. THEN. Is it possible dolphins learned to hunt with humans because they have a memory of cooperatively hunting with mermaids a species that closely resembles us IF. New species of whales the largest sea mammals have only been detected within the past two decades. THEN. Is it possible that we havent discovered every creature and that if massive whales havent been discovered until recently it answers why we havent been able to detect mermaids yet IF. Ancient disparate civilizations have described the mermaid without having any communication with other cultures. THEN. Isnt there a kernel of truth beneath the legend
The owner of this website katstorrent.co has banned your access based on your browsers signature befefdcua.
Wichita State University physics director Nickolas Solomey who spent seven years at CERN says the discovery of the Higgs could take a long time to fully understand but that it could lead to groundbreaking technologies.
Wichita Kan. In the pursuit of seemingly infinite questions there can only be more understanding.
That was the prevailing sentiment of physicist Nickolas Solomey on Wednesday after the European Center for Nuclear Research better known as CERN announced the likely discovery of the Higgsboson a particle that scientists at the Geneva Switzerlandbased research facility believe could unlock some of the answers to our universes origin.
The Higgs which until now had been purely theoretical is regarded as key to understanding why matter has mass which combines with gravity to give all objects weight. The particles existence is considered fundamental to the creation of the universe.
One question is that now that we know there is this allpermeating Higgs field where did it come from asked Solomey the director of physics at Wichita State University since . How does it act Maybe once we know that we can start to use it.
Solomey has several close ties to the halfcenturylong saga that ended Wednesday and began with a theory from Scottish scientist Peter Higgs and others in that such a particle existed.
The nickname is cringeinducing for most scientists because it indicates the particles discovery might tell us the genesis of creation. Solomey chuckled at its reference on Wednesday. Lederman recruited Solomey away from the University of Chicago to come work at the Illinois Institute of Technology in .
Leon just needed a catchy title for his book Solomey said. I know he regrets it. Weve known each other for a long time.
Solomey a Pittsburgh native worked at CERN from to under Noble Prize winner Georges Charpak and earned his Ph.D. in particle physics from the University of Geneva in .
While at CERN Charpak and Solomey worked to create highdensity states of matters states that would have been found at the beginning of the Big Bang the cosmological event that explains the early development of the universe.
We did heavy ion collision Solomey said. Trying to create an environment too hot for protons and neutrons. The key to any misconception of our work is that we were creating conditions that were at the beginning of the Big Bang. What we did was so controlled and in such a small space you cant release more energy than you put in.
Theres no danger because it takes a certain amount of energy to make it and you cant get any more out of it than you put in Solomey said. The particle accelerator is producing a certain amount of power and its not like its uncontrolled or there are an infinite number of particles.
It is producing elementary particles not anywhere near to producing a dangerous amount.
Solomey also stressed that the discovery of the Higgsboson could take a long time to fully understand comparing it to the discovery of the electron by J.J. Thomson in .
Imagine that after Thomson discovered the electron that it took a good to years to learn how to use it how to manipulate it Solomey said. It showed us how to make televisions how to make transistor radios how to make medical imaging how to sterilize our foods.
The discovery of the Higgsboson could lead to very new things imagine anything that has mass and how it couples to different masses. We could apply these things to new wonderful technologies. To do things when its critical to our basic science our basic survival always leads to an advance in applications.
We want to hear did we miss an angle we should have covered Should we come back to this topic
Mars is much like Venus its very bright and therefore easily spotted in the night sky. Because of this we dont know who exactly discovered Mars. We do know it was named after the Roman god of war because its reddish color reminded people of blood.
In Christian Huygens discovered a strange feature on the surface of the Red Planet. It was later called the Syrtis Major. We have been scared of Martians ever since. In one scientist was so convinced there was life on Mars that he wanted to draw huge figures in the snow to signal the Martians
In astronomer Giovanni Schiaparelli discovered what he believed to be several lines crossing one another. He claimed they were water canals made by intelligent creatures. 
In Mariner visited Mars and sent back images of enormous volcanoes and vast canyons. It discovered Olympus Mons now the most famous volcano not on Earth. This massive volcano could cover the state of Missouri and reaches miles above the surface Mariner also found evidence that water once flowed on Mars. However there were no sightings of Schiaparellis famous canals.
In two spacecraft named Viking I and II landed on Mars to study its surface. They analyzed the rocks and soil of the planet while providing us with information about its atmosphere and weather patterns. Even today we are exploring Mars. The Mars Global Surveyor made a map of the planet in . 
Although Mars was never really discovered its moons were In astronomer Asaph Hall spotted the two moons and named them Phobos which means fear and Deimos which means panic. They were named after the mythical horses that drew the chariot of the Roman god Mars. 
In whats sure to be the first of several broadcast and cable news specials on this subject Discovery and Science Channel are teaming for a onehour program documenting the dual natural disaster striking Japan earlier this morning.
Anatomy of a Disaster promises unprecedented footage showing the . magnitude earthquake and resulting tsunami that devastated the west coast of Japan and continues to send its ripple effects as far away as California and Oregon.
On the strength of our institutional reach and relationships Discovery Channel and Science Channel will offer a oneofakind look into todays epic natural tragedy said Clark Bunting president and GM of Discovery Channel. Anatomy of a Disaster will depict a race against time from the first wave to hit Sendai to acts of incredible heroism still yet to occur.
Also ABC announced that tonights editions of World News and Nightline will be dedicated to coverage of the tragedy.
Welcome to the Discovery Education Student Center. From this page you will be able to access assignments and assessments that your teacher has created for your class.
Once logged in you can also use the search to find videos interactives images games and more.
Wichita State University physics director Nickolas Solomey who spent seven years at CERN says the discovery of the Higgs could take a long time to fully understand but that it could lead to groundbreaking technologies.
Wichita Kan. In the pursuit of seemingly infinite questions there can only be more understanding.
That was the prevailing sentiment of physicist Nickolas Solomey on Wednesday after the European Center for Nuclear Research better known as CERN announced the likely discovery of the Higgsboson a particle that scientists at the Geneva Switzerlandbased research facility believe could unlock some of the answers to our universes origin.
The Higgs which until now had been purely theoretical is regarded as key to understanding why matter has mass which combines with gravity to give all objects weight. The particles existence is considered fundamental to the creation of the universe.
One question is that now that we know there is this allpermeating Higgs field where did it come from asked Solomey the director of physics at Wichita State University since . How does it act Maybe once we know that we can start to use it.
Solomey has several close ties to the halfcenturylong saga that ended Wednesday and began with a theory from Scottish scientist Peter Higgs and others in that such a particle existed.
The nickname is cringeinducing for most scientists because it indicates the particles discovery might tell us the genesis of creation. Solomey chuckled at its reference on Wednesday. Lederman recruited Solomey away from the University of Chicago to come work at the Illinois Institute of Technology in .
Leon just needed a catchy title for his book Solomey said. I know he regrets it. Weve known each other for a long time.
Solomey a Pittsburgh native worked at CERN from to under Noble Prize winner Georges Charpak and earned his Ph.D. in particle physics from the University of Geneva in .
While at CERN Charpak and Solomey worked to create highdensity states of matters states that would have been found at the beginning of the Big Bang the cosmological event that explains the early development of the universe.
We did heavy ion collision Solomey said. Trying to create an environment too hot for protons and neutrons. The key to any misconception of our work is that we were creating conditions that were at the beginning of the Big Bang. What we did was so controlled and in such a small space you cant release more energy than you put in.
Theres no danger because it takes a certain amount of energy to make it and you cant get any more out of it than you put in Solomey said. The particle accelerator is producing a certain amount of power and its not like its uncontrolled or there are an infinite number of particles.
It is producing elementary particles not anywhere near to producing a dangerous amount.
Solomey also stressed that the discovery of the Higgsboson could take a long time to fully understand comparing it to the discovery of the electron by J.J. Thomson in .
Imagine that after Thomson discovered the electron that it took a good to years to learn how to use it how to manipulate it Solomey said. It showed us how to make televisions how to make transistor radios how to make medical imaging how to sterilize our foods.
The discovery of the Higgsboson could lead to very new things imagine anything that has mass and how it couples to different masses. We could apply these things to new wonderful technologies. To do things when its critical to our basic science our basic survival always leads to an advance in applications.
We want to hear did we miss an angle we should have covered Should we come back to this topic
University of Alberta paleontologist Philip Currie excavates an ostrichlike dinosaur in Dinosaur Provincial Park Alta. in . Currie says modern techniques make it possible to determine with high precision what time period a dinosaur lived in. Courtesy Philip Currie 
Were really in a golden agesays David Evans Temerty Chair in Vertebrate Paleontologyat the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto and an associate professor at the University of Toronto. The rate at which were discovering dinosaurs it hasnt been faster in probably close to the last century.
Its incredible. Were finding a new dinosaur almost every two weeks weve named more dinosaurs in the last years than in the previous .
Other paleontologists agree and they have a variety of different takes on where all these new dinosaurs are coming from. Here are a just few of the reasons for the explosion in dino discoveries.
Tourists on safari peer out the window of a truckas a herdof lithe ostrichlike dinosaurs runs past them whilestegosaurs on the bank of a river stare placidly at kayakers paddling toward them in the trailer for Jurassic World released earlier this week by Universal Pictures.
Dinosaurs used to be thought of as slow dimwitted overgrown lizards. The blockbuster Jurassic Park used groundbreaking computer graphics techniques to portray them as the quick complex birdlike animals that the latest research had shown them to be. Universal PicturesAssociated Press
Less than a day after being released online the trailer had been viewed million times the franchise is still a blockbuster.
I think the popular interest in dinosaurs has really grown and I think that stems back to Jurassic Park in said Evans referring to director Steven Spielbergs original movie several sequels back. It was based on a novel by Michael Crichton about dinosaurs brought back to life by reconstructing their DNA.
Before Jurassic Park dinosaurs had been portrayed in popular culture as slow dimwitted overgrown lizards.
The movie used groundbreaking computer graphics techniques to give the image a drastic makeover its dinosaurs were depicted as the quick complex birdlike animals that the latestresearch hadshown them to be.
In fact Hollywood may have played a huge backstage role in bringing new dinosaurs into the limelight.
Hans Larsson Canada Research Chair in Vertebrate Paleontology at McGill University said the increased public interest in dinosaurs has translated into more research fundingfrom governments museums and philanthropic sources as well as more university positions for paleontologists.
Do you want to spend your work day digging up and studying dinosaur fossils Jobs like that are few and far between but there are way more than there used to be.
Larsson estimates that the number of paleontologists around the world today would outnumber all the paleontologists in the past years.
Remote rugged places like the Gobi desert that spans parts of China and Mongolia have been treasure troves of new dinosaur fossils.
David Evans curator of vertebrate paleontology at the Royal Ontario Museum works to uncover a dinosaur fossil in Sudan. Paleontologists now have access to many areas of the globe that were previously inaccessible. Courtesy David Evans
Until recently fossils buried in many remote places around the globe were out of reach to paleontologists because local governments were not always open to providingaccess to areas they controlled.
HansDieter Sues curator of vetetebrate paleontology at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History in Washington D.C. said that for yearslarge areas of the Soviet Union China and Mongolia were offlimits sometimes even to the citizens of the countries concerned.
Meanwhile exploration in Africa was hampered by political instability he said.
Many countries that were once reluctant to open their doors to paleontologists are now welcoming them and nurturing their own homegrown dinosaur hunters.
Evans said increased interest and investment in paleontology in places such as China and South America are responsible for the biggest advances and the most new speciesof dinosaurs in recent years.
Commercial airlines have also added many new routes and destinations over the past two decades that makeit more practical to explore distant parts of the globe Larsson said.
Imagine trying to go to the Gobi or the High Arctic and not having access to commercial flightshe says. In the past it would have been a bit of a logistical expedition just to get there.
Spectacular dinosaur fossils have also been unearthed by backhoes and other heavy machinery operated by oilsands workers and pipeline and construction crews in Alberta in recent years whole dinosaur skeletons that they just ran into undergroundLarsson says.
He added that people had long suspected that many dinosaur fossils lie buried underground in certain areas but the chance of finding one at any given spot is slim enough that its not worthwhile for paleontologists to randomly dig in the hopes of finding them.
However when pipelines are coming in and ripping out kilometres of rock in a straight line they are quite likely to hit something.
Such finds tend to be very large and complete skeletons since those are the kinds of fossils that someone driving heavy machinery who isnt looking for dinosaurs might recognize.
Meanwhile companies exploring for oil gas and minerals are mapping rock formations in detail that could help paleontologists uncover even more dinosaurs Larsson said.
Were looking at a different scale than we used tosaid Philip Currie Canada Research Chair in Dinosaur Paleobiology at the University of Alberta. Everybody used to think dinosaurs were big you look for big things right
In recent years paleontologists have come to realize that in fact not all dinosaurs were massive like T. Rex or Barosaurus many were the size of humans dogsor even chickens.
In modern ecosystems Currie noted small animals like mice outnumber large animals like rhinos both in the number of species and the number of individuals of each species. That was likely also the case with dinosaurs.
Currie says that using modern technologyits now possible to figure out with much greater precision the time period and location a dinosaur lived in.
This little domeheaded dinosaur Acrotholus audeti which weighed about kilograms was one of six new species named by David Evanss research team in the past three years. Julius Csotonyi
Sometimes that helps in distinguishing between species. In one case in Dinosaur Provincial Park in Alberta similar dinosaurs were once thought to be the males and females of the same species. But it turned out all the femaleswere from one time period and all the malesfrom another revealing that they were two different species.
Meanwhile Evans says that the fact that hes named six new Canadian dinosaurs in the past three years hasnt been by accident.
He has purposely hunted in types of rocks from time periods where few dinosaurs have previously been found.
Evans added that if theres one thing the recent discoveries show its that many strange and unexpected dinosaur species still lie waiting to be discovered.
Were still finding big surprises in the dinosaur worldhe said. What the last few weeks have taught us more than anything is we still have lot to learn about dinosaurs.
To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations first and last names will appear with each submission to CBCRadioCanadas online communities except in children and youthoriented communities. Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted.
By submitting a comment you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time.
Spat between Liberals and Tories over Google reveals confusion about how search works
The outputs of research generate new knowledge about the oceans. Transferring scientific knowledge to support business and industry is an important part of our NOC remit.
Our research is intended to tackle the big environmental issues facing the world. Research priorities will include the oceans role in climate change sea level change and the future of the Arctic Ocean.
The University of Southampton and the University of Liverpool both offer a range of highly regarded undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in Ocean and Earth Science.
For any media or press enquiries to the National Oceanography Centre follow the more link below. Please note the centres press office is staffed from to Monday to Friday.
The creation of a wider association of Universities and research institutions to support wider engagement of the NOC with the marine science community is now underway.
The National Oceanographic Library is a national resource for the UK marine science community.
Copyright The National Oceanography Centre NOC the Natural Environment Research Council NERC or the University of Southampton owns copyright of the material available at this site unless otherwise stated. All rights reserved.
The program however is just a documentarystyle science fiction program but that has not stopped thousands of people from instantly believing that mermaids do in fact exist.
Social networks have been lit up with discussions on the topic and thousands have argued whether mermaids are real or not.
It is believed by some that the shows description was purposely made obscure to cause such a misunderstanding. In the description the program makers acknowledge that the content was science fiction but also added that the content was based on some real life events. This caused a debate over which parts of the program were real and which were made up.
However the Department of Commerces National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA has previously clarified the confusion releasing a statement on its site stating that no evidence of aquatic humanoids has ever been found.
IF. Its a fact that polar bears evolved from the brown bear categorized now as fullfledged marine mammals. THEN. Is it possible that apes split off from terrestrial apes millions of years ago due to coastal flooding and retreated into the water evolving into aquatic creatures somewhat related to humans IF. Human babies instinctively hold their breath when placed under water before they walk something baby primates cant do. THEN. Were humans ever capable of having an aquatic state IF. Dolphins seem to have a unique kinship with humans and possess a learned trait of cooperatively hunting with humans. THEN. Is it possible dolphins learned to hunt with humans because they have a memory of cooperatively hunting with mermaids a species that closely resembles us IF. New species of whales the largest sea mammals have only been detected within the past two decades. THEN. Is it possible that we havent discovered every creature and that if massive whales havent been discovered until recently it answers why we havent been able to detect mermaids yet IF. Ancient disparate civilizations have described the mermaid without having any communication with other cultures. THEN. Isnt there a kernel of truth beneath the legend
In whats sure to be the first of several broadcast and cable news specials on this subject Discovery and Science Channel are teaming for a onehour program documenting the dual natural disaster striking Japan earlier this morning.
Anatomy of a Disaster promises unprecedented footage showing the . magnitude earthquake and resulting tsunami that devastated the west coast of Japan and continues to send its ripple effects as far away as California and Oregon.
On the strength of our institutional reach and relationships Discovery Channel and Science Channel will offer a oneofakind look into todays epic natural tragedy said Clark Bunting president and GM of Discovery Channel. Anatomy of a Disaster will depict a race against time from the first wave to hit Sendai to acts of incredible heroism still yet to occur.
Also ABC announced that tonights editions of World News and Nightline will be dedicated to coverage of the tragedy.
All content on this website including dictionary thesaurus literature geography and other reference data is for informational purposes only. This information should not be considered complete up to date and is not intended to be used in place of a visit consultation or advice of a legal medical or any other professional.
On May Wednesday Gregory P. Crawford William K. Warren Dean of the College of Science and professor of physics at the University of Notre Dame will embark on his fifth crosscountry bicycle ride to raise awareness and funds for rare disease research at Notre Dame.
This years Road to Discovery will take Crawford on a mile journey from Long Island New York to Pebble Beach California. He will arrive at Pebble Beach on June in time for the annual Parseghian Classic golf tournament benefiting NiemannPick Type C NPC disease research.
NPC is a rare and deadly cholesterol storage disorder that primarily strikes children before or during adolescence. NPC causes cholesterol to accumulate in the bodys cells leading to fatal neurodegenerative issues. Legendary Notre Dame football coach Ara Parseghian lost three of his grandchildren to NPC.
With previous research funding from the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and the Charles Edison Fund a group of Notre Dame researchers and their collaborators identified medications that have shown promising results in treating NPC disease cells in the laboratory. The treatment is currently in clinical trials at the National Institutes of Health which are supported by the money raised during the Road to Discovery.
Since Crawford has successfully completed four bike rides to raise money for NPC research traveled more than miles attended over Notre Dame alumni club events and raised million for NPC research. In he biked from Tucson Arizona to Notre Dame Indiana. He then rode from Boston to Dallas in . The following year he cycled from Boston to Pebble Beach and in he biked from Long Beach California to Baltimore.
Expanding Crawfords fundraising efforts this years Road to Discovery will also raise funds for research for other rare diseases including ones that affect young children nonketotic hyperglycinemia NKH and NGLY deficiency. NKH is a condition that prohibits the body from properly breaking down the amino acid glycine which can lead to developmental issues seizures and brain damage. NGLY deficiency is a disorder that causes the accumulation of glycoproteins in the body which can result in developmental delays abnormal tear production and liver disease. The goal of this years Road to Discovery is to raise million for research for rare diseases at Notre Dames BolerParseghian Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases.
During the monthlong bike ride Crawford will attend many events which include events with the Notre Dame Clubs of MidHudson Valley Philadelphia Fairfield County Harrisburg and Gettysburg St. Joseph Valley Quad Cities Iowa City Des Moines Denver Salt Lake City Sacramento and San JoseSilicon Valley.
Crawford will write a daily blog about his journey. The blog and full ride schedule can be found at roadtodiscovery.nd.edu.
The Road to Discovery is sponsored by Ivy Court Inn Suites Flowers Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Amicus Therapeutics Notre Dame Federal Credit Union Retrophin and Rein Juicery.
Smashing strawberries to extract the DNA mini creatures living all over our bodies and medical implants used in hospital operations are just some of the things to be amazed by when the University of Sheffield opens up its doors for Discovery Night as part of the Sheffield Festival of Science and Engineering.
Discovery Night takes place at the University of Sheffields Firth Hall on Monday March from pm until .pm and is open to everyone. The free event will be a unique opportunity to learn more about the worldleading research at the University in Science Engineering Medicine and Dentistry.
Laboratories and lecture theatres will be open for all to experience the groundbreaking research taking place at the University with dozens of talks demonstrations and hands on activities aimed at families with primary and secondary school children and to the general public.
Matters of the heart will see Dr Louise Robson from the Department of Biomedical Science reveal exactly what it is that really makes your heart tick why blood vessels are important and what happens when we exercise.
A whole world of hidden mini creatures that live in our mouths will be unveiled by Dr Graham Stafford of the School of Clinical Dentistry. Find out what they look like how they move around how bacteria can catch a cold and what happens if we dont brush our teeth.
Dr Nate Adams will present Kitchen Science Carnage with an exploration of the science in your kitchen cupboard sending rockets into space making indoor fireworks and a few loud bangs. There will also be a live link up to our MRI scanner so visitors can bring an object to scan.
Learn more about medical implants and devices with John Haycock from the Department of Materials Science and Engineering including how a hip joint works a replacement knee implant what a coronary stent is or a vascular graft.
The fortnight long Sheffield Festival of Science and Engineering runs from Saturday March until Saturday March with dozens of awesome events in locations including both the citys universities museums industry and schools all offering communities a unique opportunity to learn more about the worldleading research taking place across the region.
This years festival sees more eyeopening inspirational and exciting events for all ages and interests taking place at venues across the city than ever before and more than any other city in the UK outside of London.
For more information on the Sheffield Festival of Science and Engineering and to see the full programme please visit www.scienceweeksy.org.uk.
Sheffield Festival of Science and Engineering is supporting the National Science and Engineering Week organised by the British Science Association.
With nearly of the brightest students from countries coming to learn alongside of the worlds best academics it is clear why the University of Sheffield is one of the UKs leading universities. Staff and students at Sheffield are committed to helping discover and understand the causes of things and propose solutions that have the power to transform the world we live in.
A member of the Russell Group the University of Sheffield has a reputation for worldclass teaching and research excellence across a wide range of disciplines. The University of Sheffield has been named University of the Year in the Times Higher Education Awards for its exceptional performance in research teaching access and business performance. In addition the University has won four Queens Anniversary Prizes recognising the outstanding contribution by universities and colleges to the United Kingdoms intellectual economic cultural and social life.
One of the markers of a leading university is the quality of its alumni and Sheffield boasts five Nobel Prize winners among former staff and students. Its alumni have gone on to hold positions of great responsibility and influence all over the world making significant contributions in their chosen fields.
Research partners and clients include Boeing RollsRoyce Unilever Boots AstraZeneca GSK Siemens Yorkshire Water and many more household names as well as UK and overseas government agencies and charitable foundations.
The University has wellestablished partnerships with a number of universities and major corporations both in the UK and abroad. The White Rose University Consortium White Rose is a strategic partnership between of the UKs leading research universities of Leeds Sheffield and York. Since its creation in White Rose has secured more than M into the Universities.
Heres how researchers at Stanford University are combining nanotechnology and flexible electronics to create artificial skin.
After seeing brain injuries in American football players researchers created this collar to help protect against concussion.
Imagine being able to decode DNA in the field at the doctors surgery or even at home. The MinION is a portable sequencer that frees DNA analysis from the laboratory and might herald a revolution in biology.
Why should farmers manually farm hectares with one huge machine when they could use tiny autonomous robots instead This is the idea inventor David Dorhout had in mind when he set out to build Prospero.
SANTA ANA Word traveled fast in Salvatierra Art Guevaras hometown in Mexico. A chupacabra a bloodsucking monster slaughtered a neighbors farm animals. 
Children who played on the farms and in the fields at night would be next parents warned. But Guevara then about years old and his friends planned to catch the menacing chupacabra with a net.
It was scary. We stayed out the whole night and when we caught it we called everyone to see the chupacabra said Guevara . And then we realized it actually was a coyote.
The halfman halfbeast monster has never been photographed but the Discovery Science Center is offering insight into the mythical creature through an exhibit that runs until Nov. . The display is part of Discoverys Spooky Science program which uses monsters to explore aspects of science.
To understand the chupacabra children can learn about real creatures that share its traits. The exhibit features leeches and mosquitoes other bloodsucking organisms. And it looks at specimens such as fleas which share the hindleg features that the chupacabra purportedly uses to pounce on its prey.
What we like to do at the Discovery Science Center is offer something to spark a kids interest and then show them the science behind it said spokeswoman Julie Smith.
But Discovery leaves the mystery of the chupacabra to its guests. There are no images or figures of the creature which is said to have razorsharp fangs scaly skin and haunting red eyes.
Some Orange County residents thought they spotted a chupacabra in Santa Ana in according to news reports. A construction worker who fell asleep near his apartment window said he woke up to see a large shadowy figure of the legendary beast.
Guevara said the stories may have been a parental tactic to keep mischievous children like him home at night. But despite his chupacabra hunts he has never stopped believing the urban legend.
They would prefer little kids over grownups and animals they would tell us he said. We couldnt help but be scared.
The first chupacabra sighting was in Puerto Rico in . Goats had been killed and their blood drained. Chupacabra a Spanish word translates as goat sucker. Sightings span from South America to Michigan.
The chupacabras origin is disputed. Some say they are pets left behind by aliens animals from another dimension or creatures that have gone unnoticed since the time of the dinosaurs.
Half man half beast to feet tall Leaps up to feet with its powerful hind legs. Spikes stretch from the head to bottom of its back. Reptilian skin changes colors. Red eyes Long fangs
Comments are encouraged but you must follow our Privacy Policy Policy Terms of Use
NEW YORK A new archaeologicaldiscovery on a Jerusalem site is causing controversy as it revives the debate over the Jesus tomb and presents what scientists claim is proof that a burial box was found containing the remains of Jesus and possibly his family a direct contradiction to the belief in Christs bodily resurrection.
Tabor and Jacobovici believe the new tomb which they explored in with a robotic camera is closely tied to another nearby tomb referred to as the Jesus Family Tomb or the Garden Tomb. The tomb was first uncovered by construction work in but religious reasons did not allow exploration.
In a documentary Jacobovici claimed that the Jesus Family Tomb ossuaries had once contained the remains of Jesus and his family. The tomb contained ossuaries with inscriptions containing the names Jesus Mary Joseph close to each other. That is little likely to be coincidental the scientists said even though at the time some scholars dismissed these claims saying the names were mere coincidence.
Dr. Ben Witherington New Testament professor at Asbury Theological Seminary had noted at the release of the documentary that the names etched on the ossuaries are extremely common place. For example the name Mary was the most popular female name during that time and place while the name Jesus was popular in the first century and appeared in other tombs and on other ossuaries.
Nevertheless the scientists believe that the Jesus Family Tomb is located on the land once belonging to Joseph of Arimathea who according to Scriptures had Christs body placed in his own tomb.
Now the newly explored tomb located only feet from the Jesus Family Tomb ups the likelihood that the theory is correct Tabor told The Christian Post. The tomb contains several ossuaries that have images and inscriptions related to Jesus resurrection Christianity and what the authors suggest is the first image of a Christian cross.
During a Tuesday press conference in New York at Discovery Times Square the authors pointed to inscriptions on the bone boxes as evidence. One of them carries the sign of a fish which the scientists interpreted as a reference to Old Testament prophet Jonah and associated with Jesus death and burial. The same box shows an inscription scientists say suggests resurrection and what looks like a sign of cross.
Whether its a Christian cross or not normally if you find a cross like creation on an ossuary most scholars would say Well its not necessarily a cross it could represent a gate or a doorway something like that but with the Jonah image I think there is more of a likelihood for it to be a cross Tabor told CP.
The sign of Jonah makes the discovery easier to interpret he claims because Jesus is quoted as saying in Matthew as Jonah was in the belly of the great fish for three days and three nights so will the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights.
Everything was done properly scientifically Tabor insisted during Tuesdays press conference at Discovery Times Square.
Documentary filmmaker Simcha Jacobovici recounts the discovery of what he and a few other experts claim to be bone boxes coming from Jerusalem tombs related to Jesus Christ and the early history of Christianity at Discovery Times Square in New York during a press conference on Feb. .
The findings are the earliest testimony of faith in the resurrection of Jesus predating the oldest known copy of the New Testament Gospel and even the Gospels themselves the scientists claim. The carvings are believed to be the earliest Christian symbols ever discovered and have been in the tombs for the past years. They are the most important archaeologicalfind since the Dead Sea Scrolls Jacobovici said Tuesday.
Tabor and Jacobovicistheory is controversial especially since the scientists believe they might have discovered Jesus bones in one of the ossuaries. That theory goes against the belief of most Christians that Jesus appeared bodily to his disciples after the resurrection and ate with them before finally ascending to heaven as explained in the Gospels. One of the disciples is recorded in the Bible to have also touched the nail prints on Jesus hands.
Furthermore the scientists believe that there is a possibility that in the same tomb and next to the remains believed to be Jesus are bones that might have belonged to Mary Magdalene.
Still Tabor argues the discovery does not necessarily go against Christian faith.
What I encourage people to do is take these tombs one at a time Tabor told CP. This tomb rather than being a threat to Christians is an amazing archaeologicalevidence for early Christians recording their faith in Jesus resurrection.
Therein comes the question of the meaning of resurrection he said. Does it mean getting a new spiritual body Thats been debated by Jews and Christians for centuries what kind of body will the resurrection body be It doesnt necessarily involve the old body especially if the old body has gone decayed or gone to dust.
If we found evidence of people celebrating their faith in resurrection thats good news for you Tabor tends to tell Christians he believes might feel threatened by the discovery he revealed. Because before this you didnt have any archaeologicalevidence at all for beliefs in Jesus resurrection.
This discovery by Tabor and Jacobovici will no doubt provide thoughtful new dialogue from both ends of the spectrum about one of the most discussed and divisive archaeologicalfindings in recent history Discovery Times Square CEO James Sanna said in a statement. Sanna also emphasized that the museum does not take a side on the findings.
The ossuaries the authors suggest are part of the Jesus Family Tomb are currently on display at Discovery Times Square and coincides with the publication of Tabor and Jacobovicis book The Jesus Discovery. A film titled The Resurrection Tomb will air this spring on the Discovery Channel and Vision Television in Canada.
Discovery Communications Inc. is the leading global realworld media and entertainment company. Discovery has grown from its core property the Discovery Channel first launched in the United States in to current global operations in more than countries and territories with . billion cumulative subscribers. DCIs over networks of distinctive programming represent network entertainment brands including TLC Animal Planet Travel Channel Discovery Health Channel Discovery Kids Discovery Times Channel The Science Channel Military Channel Discovery Home Channel Discovery en Espanol Discovery Kids En Espanol Discovery HD Theater FitTV Discovery Travel Living Viajar y Vivir Discovery Home Health and Discovery Real Time.
Silver Spring Urban District. All Rights Reserved. Website by Geocentric.
Heres how researchers at Stanford University are combining nanotechnology and flexible electronics to create artificial skin.
After seeing brain injuries in American football players researchers created this collar to help protect against concussion.
Imagine being able to decode DNA in the field at the doctors surgery or even at home. The MinION is a portable sequencer that frees DNA analysis from the laboratory and might herald a revolution in biology.
Why should farmers manually farm hectares with one huge machine when they could use tiny autonomous robots instead This is the idea inventor David Dorhout had in mind when he set out to build Prospero.
Smashing strawberries to extract the DNA mini creatures living all over our bodies and medical implants used in hospital operations are just some of the things to be amazed by when the University of Sheffield opens up its doors for Discovery Night as part of the Sheffield Festival of Science and Engineering.
Discovery Night takes place at the University of Sheffields Firth Hall on Monday March from pm until .pm and is open to everyone. The free event will be a unique opportunity to learn more about the worldleading research at the University in Science Engineering Medicine and Dentistry.
Laboratories and lecture theatres will be open for all to experience the groundbreaking research taking place at the University with dozens of talks demonstrations and hands on activities aimed at families with primary and secondary school children and to the general public.
Matters of the heart will see Dr Louise Robson from the Department of Biomedical Science reveal exactly what it is that really makes your heart tick why blood vessels are important and what happens when we exercise.
A whole world of hidden mini creatures that live in our mouths will be unveiled by Dr Graham Stafford of the School of Clinical Dentistry. Find out what they look like how they move around how bacteria can catch a cold and what happens if we dont brush our teeth.
Dr Nate Adams will present Kitchen Science Carnage with an exploration of the science in your kitchen cupboard sending rockets into space making indoor fireworks and a few loud bangs. There will also be a live link up to our MRI scanner so visitors can bring an object to scan.
Learn more about medical implants and devices with John Haycock from the Department of Materials Science and Engineering including how a hip joint works a replacement knee implant what a coronary stent is or a vascular graft.
The fortnight long Sheffield Festival of Science and Engineering runs from Saturday March until Saturday March with dozens of awesome events in locations including both the citys universities museums industry and schools all offering communities a unique opportunity to learn more about the worldleading research taking place across the region.
This years festival sees more eyeopening inspirational and exciting events for all ages and interests taking place at venues across the city than ever before and more than any other city in the UK outside of London.
For more information on the Sheffield Festival of Science and Engineering and to see the full programme please visit www.scienceweeksy.org.uk.
Sheffield Festival of Science and Engineering is supporting the National Science and Engineering Week organised by the British Science Association.
With nearly of the brightest students from countries coming to learn alongside of the worlds best academics it is clear why the University of Sheffield is one of the UKs leading universities. Staff and students at Sheffield are committed to helping discover and understand the causes of things and propose solutions that have the power to transform the world we live in.
A member of the Russell Group the University of Sheffield has a reputation for worldclass teaching and research excellence across a wide range of disciplines. The University of Sheffield has been named University of the Year in the Times Higher Education Awards for its exceptional performance in research teaching access and business performance. In addition the University has won four Queens Anniversary Prizes recognising the outstanding contribution by universities and colleges to the United Kingdoms intellectual economic cultural and social life.
One of the markers of a leading university is the quality of its alumni and Sheffield boasts five Nobel Prize winners among former staff and students. Its alumni have gone on to hold positions of great responsibility and influence all over the world making significant contributions in their chosen fields.
Research partners and clients include Boeing RollsRoyce Unilever Boots AstraZeneca GSK Siemens Yorkshire Water and many more household names as well as UK and overseas government agencies and charitable foundations.
The University has wellestablished partnerships with a number of universities and major corporations both in the UK and abroad. The White Rose University Consortium White Rose is a strategic partnership between of the UKs leading research universities of Leeds Sheffield and York. Since its creation in White Rose has secured more than M into the Universities.
The owner of this website www.vernier.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beeededdfua.
The planet GU Psc b seen in an artists conception is about times bigger than Jupiter and is located about times farther away from its star than the dwarf planet Pluto is from the sun. Lucas GranitoUniversity of Montreal 
A gigantic planetlikeobject like no other has been found circling a tiny star at a recorddistance.
The object is a kind of superJupiter a gas giant about times bigger than the biggest planet in our solar system saysMarieEve Naud a PhDstudent at the University of Montreal and lead author of a scientific report describing the planet. The study is being published in the Astrophysical Journal this week.
GU PSc b is times farther from its star than the Earth is from the sun times farther than Neptune and times farther than Pluto more distant than any planet ever discovered by a long shot said Ren Doyon a University of Montreal professor who is Nauds cosupervisor and coauthor of the report.
But despite the vast distance between them theplanet is bound to its star via gravity Doyontold CBCNews.ca. The planet is actually moving with its star.
The researchers estimate that the planet completes its orbit around the star about once every years. The star itself is located about light years away in the constellation Pisces and is a small young one with just a third the mass of our sun.
The planet GU Psc b and its star GU Psc appear in visible and infrared images from the Gemini South Observatory and an infrared image from the CFHT. Because infrared light is invisible to the naked eye astronomers use a colour code in which infrared light is represented by the colour red. University of Montreal
On the other hand the unusual object is so big that it may not be a planet at all. It may instead qualify as a brown dwarf or a failed star too small to ignite the nuclear reactions that power stars.
Either way this is exciting Doyon said.If its a planet it shows that planets can form farther away from stars than previously thought and may not always form from the planetary disk of dust neara star. If its a brown dwarf it shrinks the known size limit of objects that can form in a way similar to the way stars form.
Regardless of what it is it is physically similar to a planet and is very valuable to scientists seeking to know more about planets outside our solar system Doyon said.
Because it is so far from its star the planetcan be easily observed without interference from the stars glare. That means it was much easier to determine things like the planets size and temperature said Naud.
The scientists also looked for fingerprints in different colours of light coming from the planet. Some of those indicated it is so young that it is still cooling and contracting to its final size Naud said.
The researchers even detected water and methane in the planets atmosphere Doyon added.
The team found GU PSc b during a survey of young stars launched by Nauds primary supervisor tienne Artigaud. He hoped that those stars might be circled by young planets which are warmer brighter and easier to see than older planets.
The new planet itself has a temperature of about to Cdespite the distance from its star. But because it is big and gassy it wouldntbe habitable even after it coolsto a more comfortable temperature.
What could be habitable is a moon around that planet said Doyon. He added that Jupiters moon Europa would have liquid water on its surface if it orbited Gu PSc b. However the comfortable conditions wouldnt last long as the planet would continue to cool rapidly as it got older.
The team found and studied the new object using the Observatoire MontMgantic in Quebec the CanadaFranceHawaii Telescope and the W.M. Keck Observatory in Hawaii and the Gemini Observatories in Chile and Hawaii.
Although the discoveryis unlike any planet seen before similar objects maybe common in the universe Doyon said. He added that researchers have already found another object much like it around another star.
To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations first and last names will appear with each submission to CBCRadioCanadas online communities except in children and youthoriented communities. Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted.
By submitting a comment you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time.
Spat between Liberals and Tories over Google reveals confusion about how search works
Copyright Nexstar Broadcasting Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed.
On May Wednesday Gregory P. Crawford William K. Warren Dean of the College of Science and professor of physics at the University of Notre Dame will embark on his fifth crosscountry bicycle ride to raise awareness and funds for rare disease research at Notre Dame.
This years Road to Discovery will take Crawford on a mile journey from Long Island New York to Pebble Beach California. He will arrive at Pebble Beach on June in time for the annual Parseghian Classic golf tournament benefiting NiemannPick Type C NPC disease research.
NPC is a rare and deadly cholesterol storage disorder that primarily strikes children before or during adolescence. NPC causes cholesterol to accumulate in the bodys cells leading to fatal neurodegenerative issues. Legendary Notre Dame football coach Ara Parseghian lost three of his grandchildren to NPC.
With previous research funding from the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and the Charles Edison Fund a group of Notre Dame researchers and their collaborators identified medications that have shown promising results in treating NPC disease cells in the laboratory. The treatment is currently in clinical trials at the National Institutes of Health which are supported by the money raised during the Road to Discovery.
Since Crawford has successfully completed four bike rides to raise money for NPC research traveled more than miles attended over Notre Dame alumni club events and raised million for NPC research. In he biked from Tucson Arizona to Notre Dame Indiana. He then rode from Boston to Dallas in . The following year he cycled from Boston to Pebble Beach and in he biked from Long Beach California to Baltimore.
Expanding Crawfords fundraising efforts this years Road to Discovery will also raise funds for research for other rare diseases including ones that affect young children nonketotic hyperglycinemia NKH and NGLY deficiency. NKH is a condition that prohibits the body from properly breaking down the amino acid glycine which can lead to developmental issues seizures and brain damage. NGLY deficiency is a disorder that causes the accumulation of glycoproteins in the body which can result in developmental delays abnormal tear production and liver disease. The goal of this years Road to Discovery is to raise million for research for rare diseases at Notre Dames BolerParseghian Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases.
During the monthlong bike ride Crawford will attend many events which include events with the Notre Dame Clubs of MidHudson Valley Philadelphia Fairfield County Harrisburg and Gettysburg St. Joseph Valley Quad Cities Iowa City Des Moines Denver Salt Lake City Sacramento and San JoseSilicon Valley.
Crawford will write a daily blog about his journey. The blog and full ride schedule can be found at roadtodiscovery.nd.edu.
The Road to Discovery is sponsored by Ivy Court Inn Suites Flowers Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Amicus Therapeutics Notre Dame Federal Credit Union Retrophin and Rein Juicery.
From fields including medicine public health law education and community activism they have come here for a sixweek academic and leadership institute.
The School of Nursing is reaching out to share the latest research and best practices to promote health and wellbeing.
Sociology Professor Douglas Maynard has received many honors in his career but until recently they never came with a sword.
Ryan Owens an expert on the Supreme Court can comment on the courts decision to overturn a Texas law requiring More
The yearold study abroad student died in Rome last week. Solomon arrived in Italy Thursday to study at John Cabot University.
The companies launched with help from the DP program are working in such areas as growing brain cells virtual reality and stroke rehabilitation.
The bacteria could present a novel biological control mechanism aiding efforts to stop the spread of Zika virus.
Manage all of your data and digital media in one advertiserowned SaaS based system with complete control transparency and efficiency across your entire ad spend. The AudienceScience Helios technology combines control and ownership of data with media spend transparency. This enables advertisers to store and analyze BIG data build proprietary audiences target those audiences across display video and mobilein real timeand all within a single fluid system. Advertisers can now fully and seamlessly manage both their data and buying in one system enabling safe and effective targeted advertising.
With AudienceScience Helios Advertisers own their data own their customers and own their outcomes.
Own your data and consumer relationships. Build proprietary audience data assets with online offline data.
Own the execution and the outcomes. Control every digital ad impression globally in realtime.
Own the insights and opportunities. Get unparalleled visibility into your audience and ad spendROI enabling you to make data more actionable.
Its your world well help you manage it anywhere. Get strategy and support from eight offices in seven countries on three continents.
Were the first global player to put marketing science on the side of the advertiser.
A manifesto for advertisers who want to take charge of their digital advertising.
NEW YORK A new archaeologicaldiscovery on a Jerusalem site is causing controversy as it revives the debate over the Jesus tomb and presents what scientists claim is proof that a burial box was found containing the remains of Jesus and possibly his family a direct contradiction to the belief in Christs bodily resurrection.
Tabor and Jacobovici believe the new tomb which they explored in with a robotic camera is closely tied to another nearby tomb referred to as the Jesus Family Tomb or the Garden Tomb. The tomb was first uncovered by construction work in but religious reasons did not allow exploration.
In a documentary Jacobovici claimed that the Jesus Family Tomb ossuaries had once contained the remains of Jesus and his family. The tomb contained ossuaries with inscriptions containing the names Jesus Mary Joseph close to each other. That is little likely to be coincidental the scientists said even though at the time some scholars dismissed these claims saying the names were mere coincidence.
Dr. Ben Witherington New Testament professor at Asbury Theological Seminary had noted at the release of the documentary that the names etched on the ossuaries are extremely common place. For example the name Mary was the most popular female name during that time and place while the name Jesus was popular in the first century and appeared in other tombs and on other ossuaries.
Nevertheless the scientists believe that the Jesus Family Tomb is located on the land once belonging to Joseph of Arimathea who according to Scriptures had Christs body placed in his own tomb.
Now the newly explored tomb located only feet from the Jesus Family Tomb ups the likelihood that the theory is correct Tabor told The Christian Post. The tomb contains several ossuaries that have images and inscriptions related to Jesus resurrection Christianity and what the authors suggest is the first image of a Christian cross.
During a Tuesday press conference in New York at Discovery Times Square the authors pointed to inscriptions on the bone boxes as evidence. One of them carries the sign of a fish which the scientists interpreted as a reference to Old Testament prophet Jonah and associated with Jesus death and burial. The same box shows an inscription scientists say suggests resurrection and what looks like a sign of cross.
Whether its a Christian cross or not normally if you find a cross like creation on an ossuary most scholars would say Well its not necessarily a cross it could represent a gate or a doorway something like that but with the Jonah image I think there is more of a likelihood for it to be a cross Tabor told CP.
The sign of Jonah makes the discovery easier to interpret he claims because Jesus is quoted as saying in Matthew as Jonah was in the belly of the great fish for three days and three nights so will the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights.
Everything was done properly scientifically Tabor insisted during Tuesdays press conference at Discovery Times Square.
Documentary filmmaker Simcha Jacobovici recounts the discovery of what he and a few other experts claim to be bone boxes coming from Jerusalem tombs related to Jesus Christ and the early history of Christianity at Discovery Times Square in New York during a press conference on Feb. .
The findings are the earliest testimony of faith in the resurrection of Jesus predating the oldest known copy of the New Testament Gospel and even the Gospels themselves the scientists claim. The carvings are believed to be the earliest Christian symbols ever discovered and have been in the tombs for the past years. They are the most important archaeologicalfind since the Dead Sea Scrolls Jacobovici said Tuesday.
Tabor and Jacobovicistheory is controversial especially since the scientists believe they might have discovered Jesus bones in one of the ossuaries. That theory goes against the belief of most Christians that Jesus appeared bodily to his disciples after the resurrection and ate with them before finally ascending to heaven as explained in the Gospels. One of the disciples is recorded in the Bible to have also touched the nail prints on Jesus hands.
Furthermore the scientists believe that there is a possibility that in the same tomb and next to the remains believed to be Jesus are bones that might have belonged to Mary Magdalene.
Still Tabor argues the discovery does not necessarily go against Christian faith.
What I encourage people to do is take these tombs one at a time Tabor told CP. This tomb rather than being a threat to Christians is an amazing archaeologicalevidence for early Christians recording their faith in Jesus resurrection.
Therein comes the question of the meaning of resurrection he said. Does it mean getting a new spiritual body Thats been debated by Jews and Christians for centuries what kind of body will the resurrection body be It doesnt necessarily involve the old body especially if the old body has gone decayed or gone to dust.
If we found evidence of people celebrating their faith in resurrection thats good news for you Tabor tends to tell Christians he believes might feel threatened by the discovery he revealed. Because before this you didnt have any archaeologicalevidence at all for beliefs in Jesus resurrection.
This discovery by Tabor and Jacobovici will no doubt provide thoughtful new dialogue from both ends of the spectrum about one of the most discussed and divisive archaeologicalfindings in recent history Discovery Times Square CEO James Sanna said in a statement. Sanna also emphasized that the museum does not take a side on the findings.
The ossuaries the authors suggest are part of the Jesus Family Tomb are currently on display at Discovery Times Square and coincides with the publication of Tabor and Jacobovicis book The Jesus Discovery. A film titled The Resurrection Tomb will air this spring on the Discovery Channel and Vision Television in Canada.
The owner of this website www.vernier.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature bedadafua.
Ocean Discovery Institute uses ocean science to empower young people from underserved urban communities to transform their lives their community and our world as scientific and conservation leaders. Working in the San Diego community of City Heights we deliver rigorous educational scientific research and environmental stewardship experiences that build curiosity science understanding and skills and leadership in underserved young people from kid to career.
Congratulations to Shara Fisler and our Ocean Discovery Institute community on being acknowledged as a CNN Hero
Ocean Discovery Institute is proud recipientof the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring We are the first and only organization in San Diego County to receive this prestigious honor from the White House.
Ocean Discoverys community of investors empower us to operate day to day and make a positive impact on thousands of young lives. Clickhereto donate today.
Ocean Discovery Institute is a c nonprofit that uses science to empower young people from underserved urban communities to transform their lives their community and our world as scientific and conservation leaders.
Has laoreet percipitur ad. Vide interesset in mei no his legimus verterem. Et nostrum imperdiet appellantur usu mnesarchum referrentur id vim.
A breakthrough discovery by Kent R. Walters Jr. and John G. Duman of the Department of Biological Sciences Anthony S. Serianni of the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry and researchers from the University of Alaska has revealed a new way that insects protect themselves from freezing. The discovery is included in a New York Times Science article titled When BuiltIn Antifreeze Beats a Winter Coat.
Scientists have long known that some animals including some Antarctic fish the snow flea the fire colored beetle and the spruce budworm caterpillar protect themselves from freezing by producing an antifreeze that prevents ice crystals from growing. All the known antifreezes were proteins. The group isolated and analyzed an antifreeze called xylomannan from a freezetolerant beetle and found that it contained little or no protein even though produced antifreeze comparable to the most active insect antifreeze proteins.
Terrific Science Press books have received national awards and glowing reviews. Browse our selections here and purchase through links to Amazon.com.
Our Workshop Menu offers a range of topics as well as single and multiday options.
On May Wednesday Gregory P. Crawford William K. Warren Dean of the College of Science and professor of physics at the University of Notre Dame will embark on his fifth crosscountry bicycle ride to raise awareness and funds for rare disease research at Notre Dame.
This years Road to Discovery will take Crawford on a mile journey from Long Island New York to Pebble Beach California. He will arrive at Pebble Beach on June in time for the annual Parseghian Classic golf tournament benefiting NiemannPick Type C NPC disease research.
NPC is a rare and deadly cholesterol storage disorder that primarily strikes children before or during adolescence. NPC causes cholesterol to accumulate in the bodys cells leading to fatal neurodegenerative issues. Legendary Notre Dame football coach Ara Parseghian lost three of his grandchildren to NPC.
With previous research funding from the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and the Charles Edison Fund a group of Notre Dame researchers and their collaborators identified medications that have shown promising results in treating NPC disease cells in the laboratory. The treatment is currently in clinical trials at the National Institutes of Health which are supported by the money raised during the Road to Discovery.
Since Crawford has successfully completed four bike rides to raise money for NPC research traveled more than miles attended over Notre Dame alumni club events and raised million for NPC research. In he biked from Tucson Arizona to Notre Dame Indiana. He then rode from Boston to Dallas in . The following year he cycled from Boston to Pebble Beach and in he biked from Long Beach California to Baltimore.
Expanding Crawfords fundraising efforts this years Road to Discovery will also raise funds for research for other rare diseases including ones that affect young children nonketotic hyperglycinemia NKH and NGLY deficiency. NKH is a condition that prohibits the body from properly breaking down the amino acid glycine which can lead to developmental issues seizures and brain damage. NGLY deficiency is a disorder that causes the accumulation of glycoproteins in the body which can result in developmental delays abnormal tear production and liver disease. The goal of this years Road to Discovery is to raise million for research for rare diseases at Notre Dames BolerParseghian Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases.
During the monthlong bike ride Crawford will attend many events which include events with the Notre Dame Clubs of MidHudson Valley Philadelphia Fairfield County Harrisburg and Gettysburg St. Joseph Valley Quad Cities Iowa City Des Moines Denver Salt Lake City Sacramento and San JoseSilicon Valley.
Crawford will write a daily blog about his journey. The blog and full ride schedule can be found at roadtodiscovery.nd.edu.
The Road to Discovery is sponsored by Ivy Court Inn Suites Flowers Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Amicus Therapeutics Notre Dame Federal Credit Union Retrophin and Rein Juicery.
