The Chinese government has told stateowned companies they must help absorb soldiers laid off due to military reforms as part of their contribution to the armys modernisation and social stability. 
Chinese President Xi Jinping added his voice today to officials trying to reassure the world that the government was still firmly committed to financial reform following criticism of its intervention to steady rocky markets and boost growth. 
China will increase its healthcare subsidies by per cent this year as part of efforts to deepen social reforms and strengthen safety nets the government said on Saturday. 
China will increase its healthcare subsidies by per cent this year as part of efforts to deepen social reforms and strengthen safety nets the government said today. 
China will likely stick with this years growth target of . per cent for as top leaders balance the need to keep the economy on an even keel while pushing through necessary structural reforms sources at top government think tanks said. 
Chinafocused equity funds saw some net inflows in November when the ruling Communist Party announced plans for farreaching economic and social reforms and analysts said once the government starts following through on those plans it would trigger a flood of money. 
Chinas leaders are expected to gather at a closeddoor meeting next week to set policy and reform priorities for 
Some financial and fiscal reforms are likely to be the first out of the blocks analysts said but more wrenching changes such as land reform reining in the power of statebehemoths and a more universal social welfare system may take years as the Communist Party leaders balance reorganising the economy with a need to maintain stability. 
China unwrapped its boldest set of economic and social reforms in nearly three decades on Friday relaxing its onechild policy and further freeing up markets in order to put the worlds secondlargest economy on a more stable footing. 
China unwrapped its boldest set of economic and social reforms in nearly three decades on Friday relaxing its onechild policy and further freeing up markets in order to put the worlds secondlargest economy on a more stable footing. 
Roubini emphasized the need for implementing promised reforms and sprucing up social spending in India. 
He made an impressive splash on the small screen with Satyamev Jayate a popular jargon now which has facilitated a number of social reforms in the country.
He made an impressive splash on the small screen with Satyamev Jayate a popular jargon now which has facilitated a number of social reforms in the country.
When Bollywood superstar Aamir Khan graced the small screen with Satyamev Jayate one would have least expected the impact the show would have on the aam janta and the bureaucrats.
When Bollywood superstar Aamir Khan graced the small screen with Satyamev Jayate one would have least expected the impact the show would have on the aam janta and the bureaucrats.
If we dont take action now tens millions of Americans will be poor or near poverty when they get old.
The negative portrayal of Social Security had not just happened and was never realistic. Initially Social Security was portrayed as one leg of a threelegged stool. Company pensions and personal savings were the others. Now that metaphor fails. Personal savings are negative and companies continue to withdraw from pensions. Only Social Security remains.
Over the past few decades American companies have turned away from pensions and toward k accounts to help their workers save for retirement. Tha.
Republicans are determined to gut Social Security while Democrats have yet to flatly reject budget cuts or endorse its expansion as part of the party platform. This means that there are two possible futures for Social Security.
By Jim Oliphant LONDONDERRY N.H. April Reuters New Jersey Governor Chris Christie who is making cutting Social Security and .
Sen. Rand Paul RKy. on Wednesday began a twoday tour through New Hampshire the first Republican primary state where where he offered up a heap o.
In the last month alone three bills expanding Social Security have been introduced. The three add to a growing number which see Social Security as the solution to a looming retirement income crisis.
Today Baby Boomers we start to dig into the meat and potatoes of the Social Security system.
Universal Healthcare and Livable Social Security are essential to save our states cities public authorities and public education from the crippling and bankrupting burdens of healthcare and pensions and for economic recovery and national prosperity.
Jon Cowan and Jim Kessler of the supposed think tank Third Way have taken to the oped pages of the Wall Street Journal Tuesday to offer the nation an.
Here are things you need to know about the Trustees Report and what it means for people with disabilities.
Workers pay . percent of their earnings into the Social Security system and employers pay a matching amount up to in . Workers who earn.
For million Americans the Social Security system works satisfactorily. Therefore many were surprised when President Obama suggested a fix using the chained CPI for the costofliving adjustment. Whats wrong with the Social Security system
Its time to have a national discussion about how to ensure that Social Security continues to contribute to the future security of older Americans not in the context of reducing a federal deficit it did not create but with the goal of helping people achieve a comfortable retirement.
The Social Security trust fund is expected to be exhausted in . After that there will be enough tax revenue coming in to pay out about three quar.
The concept of increasing Social Security has been around for a while. Strengthen Social Security a coalition of groups reviewed the programs ability to meet current and future needs and concluded that benefits should be increased rather than cut.
It is time for all top wage earners and all the other Social Security mythmakers to put away their bad ideas and silence their propaganda for the real good of America.
Although Obama has considered the chained CPI he has also advocated raising the FICA tax cap. His proposal does not go far enough to preserve Social Security. A better alternative is to expand the tax base not merely by increasing the FICA tax cap but by taxing other income sources.
Im getting really tired of the hysteria over this socalled somewhat media created fiscal cliff. But I do think we are in for some changes in health care as a result of the discussions going on in Washington so heres what you should expect.
Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner said on Sunday that President Barack Obama is open to reforming Social Security but not until after a deal has been r.
By Linda Stern WASHINGTON Oct Reuters It is no surprise that as the baby boom approaches its Social Security years it is turni.
WASHINGTON The Obama campaign played a bit of debate cleanup on Friday night with a blog post clarifying that there are indeed differences betwee.
WASHINGTON Of all the moments that left Democrats scratching their collective head following President Barack Obamas debate performance Wednesday .
NEW YORK In littlenoticed remarks at a Tea Party town hall meeting earlier this year Republican Connecticut Senate candidate Linda McMahon propos.
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more.
The owner of this website www.arabnews.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature bedecddfua.
PARIS France AFP Former French prime minister Michel Rocard who died aged on Saturday followed a political career in which he placed pragmatism and honesty above personal ambition.
Rocard was on the right wing of the Socialist Party and called himself a Social Democrat of dialogue who tried to accept economic realities without giving up social ideals.
He made unsuccessful bids to become president but was blocked by Francois Mitterrand under whom he served as French premier for three years starting in May before being as he saw it fired.
Among Rocards notable achievements were an end to unrest by separatists in French New Caledonia and a minimum social assistance payment the RMI aimed at alleviating poverty.
But though he possessed an impressive intellect and was respected for his honesty Rocard never had Mitterrands feel for politics and the two were steadfast Socialist adversaries.
The deep contempt that I feel for his absence of ethics is compatible with the complete admiration I have for his tactical prowess Rocard once said of Mitterrand.
Born on August in the Paris suburb of Courbevoie Rocard attended elite schools for French leaders the Paris Institute of Political Studies and the National School of Administration.
His father was a physicist who helped develop Frances atomic bomb while his mother is said to have transmitted a strong Protestant influence.
As a young scout Rocard welcomed people returning from Nazi camps before working for a couple of years in a factory.
Shake that together and you have a Socialist he once joked and his background also fueled strong opposition to the French colonialist war in Algeria.
But his academic abilities were accompanied by a fairly stiff demeanour a distinguishing feature along with his relatively short height of . metres five feet seven inches sharp eyes and bald forehead.
Rocard found it hard to put a large crowd in his pocket or press flesh and slap backs at political rallies and was more at ease in solitary environs such as when he was sailing skiing or exploring Arctic regions.
The French public did relate to his desire to speak the truth however and he consistently enjoyed strong results in opinion polls.
Before serving as premier Rocard headed two ministries territorial development and planning and agriculture during the period from to when he resigned after Mitterrand introduced the proportional system for legislative elections.
That measure boosted the farright National Front and it helped Mitterrand weaken the electoral base of conservative rivals.
Rocard was happy meanwhile to serve as mayor of ConflansSaintHonorine west of Paris winning election four times starting in and calling the post the most beautiful political function.
While seeming fragile especially after he suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in India in he bounced back more curious about life than ever becoming the first person over to reach both of the earths geographic poles.
David Cameron has promised an allout assault on poverty with a series of social reforms to include better mental health services and mentoring schemes.
The PM said new mothers and teenagers with anorexia were among those who would benefit from improved services.
He also promised to flatten sink estates help families save and more funding for parenting classes.
Labour said the PM had previously cut mental health spending and the new pledges were too little too late.
Mr Cameron defended controversial education reforms and praised Tiger Mothers who pushed children to succeed.
It was the precise opposite of the all must have prizes culture he said insisting that children thrive on high expectation.
Setting out what he called a lifecycle approach at the charity Family Action in north London Mr Cameron said many people now experienced paucity of opportunity rather than material poverty although he acknowledged some of the latter did still exist.
Reforms would focus on four key areas family life and early years education equal opportunity and treatable problems such as mental health and addiction.
Improving family life was the best antipoverty measure ever he said promising to double funding for relationship counselling and to provide careers guidance and mentors costing m over the next five years.
He also announced a relaunch of a coalition policy of parenting classes which was criticised after a low takeup in a pilot scheme.
He said he wanted it to become normal even aspirational to attend parenting courses and his strategy would examine voucher schemes or other incentives to encourage people to attend.
The government also wanted to help build families financial resilience and planned to bring forward a scheme to help people on low incomes save he said adding that full details would be announced in the next Budget.
On education he said state schools must learn from elite schools and teach character virtues and resilience as well as knowledge.
This included teaching curiosity honesty perseverance and service as well as the value of hard work and concentration and coming back from failure the Tiger Mothers battle hymn.
The government would provide bn over four years for the National Citizen Service in England and Northern Ireland to show young people the power of public service not just self service he said.
He hoped it would cover of all year olds and become the largest scheme of its kind in Europe he said.
On improving opportunities for all he promised cash for a mentoring scheme targeting pupils at risk of dropping out of school and plans to spend m to tear down brutal housing estates in England which he said design crime in rather than design crime out.
Mr Cameron also used his speech to promise action on treatable problems including mental illnesses and addiction.
Calling for a more mature conversation about mental health he said new mothers and teenagers with anorexia would be among those to benefit from bn extra cash that was allocated in the Autumn Statement.
The PM also pledged more psychiatric support in hospital AE departments and for community services.
Labour said mental health spending had dropped on David Camerons watch and the new announcements were too little too late.
Lucy Powell Labours shadow education secretary said David Cameron was fond of making speeches about families but absolutely woeful in following through. 
The closure of many Sure Start childrens centres and huge cuts to family support services tax credit and welfare changes had left many many more families in crisis she said.
Lib Dem spokesman Norman Lamb who was a health minister during the coalition government said the PMs mental health plans fell well short of the ambitions set out by his party and the Conservatives in .
It will leave a disparity between physical health and mental health at the heart of our NHS. That is morally wrong and economically stupid he said.
The UKs Iraq War inquiry says Tony Blair overstated Saddam Husseins threat sent illprepared troops into battle and had wholly inadequate plans for the aftermath.
The owner of this website www.arabnews.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature befcddcua.
George Osborne didnt break into verse at the Tory conference but he had a strikingly similar message. He asked his audience to imagine the anger of the shiftworker leaving home in the dark hours of the early morning who looks up at the closed blinds of their nextdoor neighbour sleeping off a life on benefits. Aside from the fact that such houses are more likely to have curtains than blinds it was an effective tactic. The image of the lazy selfish scrounger was being conjured up again and a Tory audience was being invited to boo. It sounded like the Nasty Party was making a comeback. 
Whats more he is not alone. Esther McVey the newish employment minister has made clear to the Treasury how appalled she is about the enthusiasm with which it talks about welfare cuts. When ministers were given suggested talking points before Osbornes Autumn Statement she protested about the divisive language. She warned that you cant continue cutting workingage welfare indefinitely without causing real hardship in Northern towns and Conservatives ought not to forget that. 
Its significant that McVey is one of the new intake of Tory MPs. Many of them regard social justice as being integral to their Conservatism which is in part a generational factor. When Lilley recited his ditty in it was not yet clear that many on his little list had been trapped by his governments mistakes. As office jobs supplanted factory jobs ministers thought the unemployed could be shovelled on to incapacity benefit and forgotten. This went on to create a welfare trap so effective that at least four million people stayed on outofwork benefits throughout the Labour boom years. The newer MPs are now more likely to recognise that the system designed to fight the old poverty is incubating a new poverty. 
At its heart this is a question about the very identity of the Conservative Party. For most of the last decade it has had shamefully little to say about social justice. Lilleys little list could be heard to echo down the pages of its manifestos. There seemed to be a greater focus on overseas aid than British poverty which admittedly is not a cause anyone wears wristbands for. Not until IDS quit as leader was he struck by the extent of this new poverty and he set up a think tank to lobby the Tories from outside. This is perhaps why the social justice agenda still looks like something that was bolted on to the party rather than something that grew from within. 
Only David Cameron can remedy this. The Prime Minister has always spoken convincingly on the subject saying how it has fallen to the modern Conservative Party to eliminate the poverty that Labour was unable to recognise let alone vanquish. But these speeches come too infrequently. I need to get back into this he says occasionally but there are too few around him who nudge him in that direction. As a result what ought to be a key component of the modern Conservative message risks being lost. 
It should be relatively easy to bring the Tory welfare wars to an end. It was Osborne who decided to bring IDS in from the back benches and Osborne who asked him to reform welfare so the two men are hardly irreconcilable. It is a question of language priorities and what sort of party Cameron wants people to vote for next year. Is it one that takes sadistic pleasure in making life tougher for those on benefits Or a party that sees them as victims of a broken system and wants to help them from dependence into independence 
As Conservative modernisers point out even people who agree with Tory policies tend to question Tory motives. Given that welfare reform will be at least a year mission there is a case for the whole Government making clear what these motives are. Tories tend to dislike moral missions but there is a clear need for one here. And with the economy booming and unemployment falling there is a reasonable chance that this mission may be accomplished. 
What an appropriate yet witty poster at Texas border. They have permanently banned Sharia Law.
My dear friends. Can you imagine this type of brutal punishment to the children in a Shool of Tamilnadu Please share this picture to every Indian and Hon ble Prime Minister of India.
A Hindu reporter with Pakistans staterun news agency was barred from using the same glass and utensils as his Muslim colleagues after they found out about his religion.
My brother Ravi Rai was admitted in Fortis Shalimar Bagh due to an injury in right leg. But he was operated on his left foot instead w.hich was perfectly healthy without any injuries.When my father asked them to discharge himthey made him wait for hours outside the hospital because they wanted the matter to mellow down. My brother has been shifted to another hospital .Fortis Shalimar Bagh has still not given us any reports of Xrays Citi scan etc. I am afraid that they can easily manipulate the reports to make the matter weak. It is a matter of sheer medical negligence and it is not the first time for Fortis Hospital. A crore fine on a Fortis Healthcare subsidiary has already been slapped by The Directorate General of Health Services DGHS. The team of doctors who operated on my brother including DR Rahul and Dr. Ashwani have only been DISMISSED and they will be taken back once the incident mellow downs. I want their licence to be cancelled and their qualifications should also be rechecked. I shout out for help. Since Fortis is a big organisation they can come out clean very easily. My brother cannot even sit properly. He recently gave his CA Final exams and wanted to go out on a vacation. Now he is bedridden for months.People who can help please come forward. I dont want the hospital to go clean. I shout out for help so that the next time the doctors in the hospital will not be drunk while operating on a patient.
RE . ATVideo
Islam has no place in my country says next EU president The Express Tribune
Slovakian premier says he will not tolerate Muslim immigrants who will start building mosques all over
The major challenge facing us is to elevate our national life to the highest level of civilization and prosperity.
In his program of modernization secular government and education played a major role. Making religious faith a matter of individual conscience he created a truly secular system in Turkey where the vast Moslem majority and the small Christian and Jewish minorities are free to practice their faith. As a result of Atatrks reforms Turkey unlike scores of other countries has fully secular institutions.
The ISSA has collected descriptions of the major social security reforms in social protection schemes worldwide since including information on existing and planned changes to social security systems. Social security reforms are compiled by the ISSA from various information sources.
More than half a century of sweeping educational reforms have done little to improve Britains social mobility according to one of the countrys leading experts on equality.
Instead young people from less welloff families entering todays labour market have far less favourable prospects than their parents or even their grandparents despite having gained much better qualifications.
Giving the British Academy sociology lecture on March Dr John Goldthorpe a sociologist at the University of Oxford whose work on class has proven widely influential will claim that little has changed in British society since the second world war largely because more advantaged families are using their economic cultural and social advantages to ensure that their children remain at the top of the social class ladder.
The new findings offer a sobering corrective to the prevailing view favoured by successive governments that improving access to education has been a powerful weapon in promoting social mobility in Britain.
Successive governments committed to increasing mobility have regarded educational policy as the essential means to this end Goldthorpe observes. Yet despite all this expansion and reform inequalities in relative mobility chances have remained little altered.
Goldthorpe and colleagues at the University of Oxfords department of social policy and intervention analysed the social origins education and work histories of about men and women born in the s s s and s. Their work shows that people born in Britain in the s and s have tended to be less upwardly mobile than their parents and grandparents while an increasing number of men and women have started to drop down the social ladder.
They attribute the upward mobility from the s to the s to a major expansion of professional and managerial jobs during a period that Goldthorpe terms the golden age of social mobility.
But conversely the progress made by this generation means that an increasing number of their children are now at heightened risk of moving down the social ladder.
The dark side of the golden age is that more individuals are now experiencing social descent and fewer social ascent simply because the numbers at risk of the former have increased Goldthorpe says. A situation is emerging that is quite new in modern British history. Young people entering the labour market today face far less favourable mobility prospects than did their parents or their grandparents.
Goldthorpe an emeritus fellow of Nuffield College Oxford came up with the Goldthorpe class schema which led to the creation of the widely used national statistics socioeconomic classification system. His lecture will help continue the debate about schisms within British society.
On Saturday the governments social mobility adviser Alan Milburn chair of the Social Mobility and Child Poverty Commission warned in the Guardian that there was a risk that Britain would become permanently divided as a result of growing intergenerational inequality.
This idea that the succeeding generation would do better than the previous generation is part of the glue that binds Milburn said. I was brought up to believe that if you stuck in at school youd get on in life. Unfortunately theres pretty compelling data to suggest that may no longer be the case.
Goldthorpes lecture is likely to reinforce this view. There are good grounds for believing consistent with the psychological theory of loss aversion that parents and their children are yet more concerned to avoid downward mobility than they are to achieve upward mobility he will claim. And thus parents in more advantaged class positions will respond to any expansion or reform of the educational system by using their own superior resources economic cultural and social to whatever extent it takes to help their children retain a competitive edge in the system and in turn in the labour market.
It is this coming together of the strong motivation to avoid dclassement and the usually adequate means for doing so that is the source of the powerful resistance to change.
If things are to change Goldthorpe argues that governments must focus on policies that go beyond simply promoting economic growth. These would include new initiatives to increase funding for research and development to improve the countrys infrastructure and to raise the quality of its public services.
What can be achieved through educational policy alone is limited far more so than politicians find it convenient to suppose Goldthorpe argues. To look to the educational system itself to provide a solution to the problem of inequality of opportunity is to impose an undue burden on it. Rather a whole range of economic and social policies is needed.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments but please come back later to add your own.
China is to overhaul the system that migrant workers say has made them secondclass citizens easing the settlement of million people in cities over the next six years.
The plan from the state council will remove the distinction between urban and rural residents a decision welcomed for its symbolic value at least. It should help migrant workers to access services and social welfare.
But experts warned that the changes to the hukou or household registration system fell short of hopes for more comprehensive reform and would have limited impact.
The reforms include exemptions for major cities and analysts say key measures are not enforceable by the centre. Even if million gain new rights there are more than that already living in cities without official status.
The hukou system introduced in the s ties peoples access to services to their residential status. When controls on movement were relaxed tens of millions of migrant workers left the fields to work in factories toil on building sites serve in restaurants or clean homes contributing to Chinas spectacular economic growth.
But while they have built new cities and boosted their incomes they have not enjoyed the same benefits in healthcare pensions and other social welfare as city residents. Their children often struggle to access education tens of millions have been left in the countryside to be raised by grandparents.
Hukou is basically apartheid apartheid against domestic servants said Lynette Ong associate professor of political science at the University of Toronto. One question is whether this makes a difference at the material level in terms of entitlements and access to education. The second is how it affects some of the softer discrimination against people with a rural hukou with people in cities looking down on them.
China wants of its almost . billion population to be urbanised by hoping that their increased consumption as city dwellers will boost the economy.
While the country has seen an extraordinary shift in recent decades shifting from a predominantly rural to predominantly urban society in authorities still fear that an uncontrollable rush to the cities could lead to slums and security problems. Existing residents fear that their privileges may be eroded.
Many of those who have gained urban hukous in recent years have been farmers resettled to small urban centres nearby often when their land was taken over by the government. Moving across provinces or into major cities has proved and will remain far more difficult.
Most people want to go to the big cities because thats where the opportunities are said Ong.
He said even incremental reform was good news noting that specific details in the document such as limits on how long governments can require social welfare contributions from migrants before granting them a hukou should help workers.
He also noted that the document did not get to grips with the crucial question of land rights. In trials many migrants have been reluctant to adopt an urban hukou because that would mean losing land rights which they regard as an insurance policy. Deferring the issue might reassure workers for now but raised questions about the long term he said. It could even be a new way of appropriating their land.
Lu Yilong an expert on hukou at Renmin University said eradicating the urbanrural hukou distinction would form the basis for broader welfare and social service reforms. Although regional differences such as the difference between Beijing and Anhui are likely to linger on the reform will gradually bridge gaps within the same region he said.
He said the government needed to follow up with matching reforms in areas such as education equality social welfare and city planning.
Tao Ran an expert on rural policy and urbanisation at Renmin University said funding should be provided for public services. At present local governments have few sources of income.
Migrants will be able to settle in small cities freely but will face restrictions if they seek to move to cities with populations of between three to five million and a tough points system for cities with more than five million inhabitants.
Yangon Dec IANS Myanmars Planning Commission has approved a point basic framework for economic and social reforms official media reported Friday.
The basic framework covers finance and taxation reform monetary sector reform relaxation of regulations on trade and investment undertakings for private sector development health and education reforms plan for food sufficiency and agricultural sectors development plan for upgrading of mobile communication services and internet system.
It also covers infrastructural development programs and programs for emergence of effective and efficient governing system and transparency reported Xinhua citing the New Light of Myanmar.
Speaking at the conclusion of the commission meeting Thursday in Nay Pyi Taw President U Thein Sein said the twoday discussions based on peoplecentred development approach ranged from socioeconomic political and administrative objectives to fiscal year targets of national planning.
He underlined efforts in ensuring participation of all citizens in political process which is essential to put economic reform in place stressing the need to make continued efforts to foster equal rights for each and every citizen to work as well as job opportunities instituting economic reform especially on rural development and poverty alleviation of rural people.
He emphasized improvement of public healthcare service social security access to electricity and better communication service.
He said that urbanisation projects must be implemented to ensure better living standard of the citizens.
Millions of dollars are invested in poverty alleviation programs. Yet experience has shown that successful outcomes depend on more than the best intentions of policymakers or the relative amount of investment. Caring about the political feasibility of reforms is a key variable in the equation as well according to a recently published IDB study.
Wolfgang Munar and Alejandra Gonzlez coauthors of The Political Economy of Social Sector Reforms assess a series of policy reforms in the Dominican Republic between December and November . They report that tailoring the reform program to local political and institutional constraints significantly increased national ownership improved program executability and increased the chances of longterm sustainability and development effectiveness. Assessing and monitoring the political and institutional feasibility of reforms during the design and implementation stages of a set of Bankfinanced projects had significant positive effects in this Caribbean island country.
Because reform choices in the social sectors revolve around such complex issues as who is entitled to services what ought to be the priorities who will provide the services and how money will be allocated the authors say it is politics that will determine a reforms final outcome and its impact on societys general welfare and on poverty alleviation.
By explicitly assessing the political and institutional threats and opportunities for reforms the Dominican government and IDB teams agreed early in on a roadmap for reforms in the social sectors. This approach plus the combination of the Banks current offering of lending and nonlending instruments has already generated significant results.
The first stage of policy reforms was financed through a US million policybased loan in combination with nonreimbursable technical cooperation programs and the Banks portfolio in the country. During the design and execution stages of the program the Bank developed a policy toolkit that was helpful to its staff and reformers in borrowing countries in explicitly assessing the feasibility of proposed reforms and pivotal in their successful execution. Applications of this experience are expected to include using the toolkit in other countries and the design of other projects.
This has translated into a higher level of engagement in state reform initiatives authors agree. As a result donors are seeking to adapt their policies lending instruments and policy dialogue strategies in order to better support governments in their efforts to improve the equity quality and efficiency of their social services.
The performance of social sector reform projects will improve if the political and institutional aspects are more prominent when assessing policy options for reform and if analytical tools can help incorporate this analysis in project design and implementation in a practical way.
This would contribute to embed projects into the political context in which they will be immersed promoting ownership at the local level. And according to the study it would also make the IDB a more effective partner in poverty alleviation.
As part of the Economic and Sector Study Series an upcoming paper will present the results and lessons to be learned from the design execution and completion of the Dominican Republic program.
We want to provide you with the most relevant content. Simply enter your preferences below and join our mailing list.
One of the major concerns in the context of economic reforms has been the development of the social sector. Social issues have been the focus of various researches in the wake of economic reforms around the globe. Economic reforms worldwide have made structural adjustments to address social issues.
Economic reforms in these countries in recent times have sought to address plaguing social concerns like In many underdeveloped economies especially in African countries specific Social Action Programs SAPs have been introduced in economic reforms to ensure sustained development in the social sector. In Asian and Latin American countries too special efforts have been made to ensure social sector development in the wake of economic reforms.Creating employment opportunities with special emphasis on job opportunities for unskilled workers. Employment opportunities for unskilled laborers can be created specially in heavy industries with the implementation of effective economic reforms. This helps to bring down the general level of poverty and helps to raise the average standard of living in the society.Providing basic social facilities like healthcare education etc. These efforts are directed to provide better living conditions especially to the rural poor. Initiatives like proper sanitary conditions eradication of illiteracy contribute significantly to social development.
Several key areas of social development are addressed by economic reforms. Significant among them are 
The health sector is one of the key concerns of social development. A society with plaguing health problems can rarely achieve economic growth. Economic reforms in developing countries have taken serious note of the health issues. Most third world economies have been affected by malnutrition lack of proper medical treatment and absence of well formulated family welfare programs. These have been addressed by economic reforms. Economic reforms have opened up opportunities of investment in the health sector. Private initiatives in the health sector have augmented the quality of healthcare services. Also flow of medical information and medical services across countries have led to further development in the health sector. Introduction of health insurance schemes in many developing nations is another significant initiative in this area.Economic reforms have had a major impact in expansion of employment opportunities. The poverty issue too has been addressed by economic reforms by introducing Structural Adjustment Programs with extensive initiatives by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund IMF. The average level of income and standard of living has improved significantly in many developing countries as a result of economic reforms.Education is another area that has gained significantly from economic reforms. Widespread private investment has been observed in the education sector in many economies implementing economic reforms. This helps in wide expansion of higher education. On the other hand in the wake of reforms NGOs have the opportunity of spreading literacy programs and education for adults.The effects of economic reforms on environment can be traced to the following factors Technology With expansion of economic activities due to economic reforms the environment may be affected. However economic reforms help in the use of proper environment friendly technology that helps to maintain ecological balance if used properly.Investment with the level of economic activity in a country increasing there in wider scope of investing in environment projects.Specialization With economic reforms comes trade liberalization. A country can focus on producing goods and services where it has comparative advantages. This would lead to less exploitation of scarce resources in a country
Economic reforms help to spread the benefits accrued to the economy. Industries and business industries can be spread to lesser developed areas. Special Economic Zones SEZs are an initiative to this end. Regional imbalances are lessened by such initiatives. China has been highly successful in spreading the benefits of growth and development from economic reforms to even remote areas of the country.Economic reforms help in infrastructure development. Transport Communication Information have gained significantly from economic reforms in terms of infrastructure development. Private investment in these areas has played a major role in such development.
Please sign up to read full document. 
SocioReligious Reform Movements in India were part of eighteenth century and twentiethcentury India. During this time on one side India was suffering from stagnating traditional culture and society at very low ebb while on the other hand India possessed a still traditional society in the throes and the creative excitement of modernising and of emerging as a new nation. The nineteenth century initiated. 
.Many things can contribute to the rise of social reform in the s. Many scholars such Ralph Waldo Emerson or Edgar Allen Poe helped lead the reform era. But the most some of the most important ideas that encouraged social reform was the Second Great Awakening Industrialization and nostalgia. All three played a very important role and had key people who helped jump start a era of reformation.
The period between and was a battlefield for social reforms. Each group was convinced that their ideology was correct and tried to infuse the public with their doctrine. Whether it be the Populists the Progressives or even the socialists each party had great orators to promote their cause. Each citizen sided with the party that he believed would benefit him and his country the most. 
Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar bimraw ramdi ambekr April December popularly also known as Babasaheb was an Indian jurist political leader philosopher anthropologist historian orator economist teacher editor prolific writer revolutionary and a revivalist for. 
Social movement are different than communal behavior its more objective amp organized however communal behavior is. 
.This election you are going to hear the words minority majority and coalition thrown around a lot. These phrases represent possible results. If you listen to the rhetoric youre probably convinced that anything other than a majority is somehow a failure. This is however simply not the truth. This entry will explain the differences between these three types of governments and will weigh the pros and cons of each.Before you dig into the nuts and bolts of majority. 
Being a nineteen year old college student what does Social Security have to do with you The fact is it has every thing to do with us as students Shortly after President Bushs reelection he started to put his new found political muscle into Social Security reform declaring now is the time to act. This new reform will allow workers to withhold payroll endings and put that money into personal. 
China is to overhaul the system that migrant workers say has made them secondclass citizens easing the settlement of million people in cities over the next six years.
The plan from the state council will remove the distinction between urban and rural residents a decision welcomed for its symbolic value at least. It should help migrant workers to access services and social welfare.
But experts warned that the changes to the hukou or household registration system fell short of hopes for more comprehensive reform and would have limited impact.
The reforms include exemptions for major cities and analysts say key measures are not enforceable by the centre. Even if million gain new rights there are more than that already living in cities without official status.
The hukou system introduced in the s ties peoples access to services to their residential status. When controls on movement were relaxed tens of millions of migrant workers left the fields to work in factories toil on building sites serve in restaurants or clean homes contributing to Chinas spectacular economic growth.
But while they have built new cities and boosted their incomes they have not enjoyed the same benefits in healthcare pensions and other social welfare as city residents. Their children often struggle to access education tens of millions have been left in the countryside to be raised by grandparents.
Hukou is basically apartheid apartheid against domestic servants said Lynette Ong associate professor of political science at the University of Toronto. One question is whether this makes a difference at the material level in terms of entitlements and access to education. The second is how it affects some of the softer discrimination against people with a rural hukou with people in cities looking down on them.
China wants of its almost . billion population to be urbanised by hoping that their increased consumption as city dwellers will boost the economy.
While the country has seen an extraordinary shift in recent decades shifting from a predominantly rural to predominantly urban society in authorities still fear that an uncontrollable rush to the cities could lead to slums and security problems. Existing residents fear that their privileges may be eroded.
Many of those who have gained urban hukous in recent years have been farmers resettled to small urban centres nearby often when their land was taken over by the government. Moving across provinces or into major cities has proved and will remain far more difficult.
Most people want to go to the big cities because thats where the opportunities are said Ong.
He said even incremental reform was good news noting that specific details in the document such as limits on how long governments can require social welfare contributions from migrants before granting them a hukou should help workers.
He also noted that the document did not get to grips with the crucial question of land rights. In trials many migrants have been reluctant to adopt an urban hukou because that would mean losing land rights which they regard as an insurance policy. Deferring the issue might reassure workers for now but raised questions about the long term he said. It could even be a new way of appropriating their land.
Lu Yilong an expert on hukou at Renmin University said eradicating the urbanrural hukou distinction would form the basis for broader welfare and social service reforms. Although regional differences such as the difference between Beijing and Anhui are likely to linger on the reform will gradually bridge gaps within the same region he said.
He said the government needed to follow up with matching reforms in areas such as education equality social welfare and city planning.
Tao Ran an expert on rural policy and urbanisation at Renmin University said funding should be provided for public services. At present local governments have few sources of income.
Migrants will be able to settle in small cities freely but will face restrictions if they seek to move to cities with populations of between three to five million and a tough points system for cities with more than five million inhabitants.
New Census data shows that from to median household incomes dropped for every age group except people and older for whom it actually grew . percent since the period before the recession. But a Census Bureau official also tells U.S. News that data suggest that household income may be on the rise due to seniors doubling upcombining households with other family members or individualsnot to mention the many older Americans who have been forced to delay retirement and are still working.
Republican presidential candidates have begun touching the socalled third rail of America politics none more forcefully than Texas Gov. Rick Perry who has branded it a Ponzi scheme. However candidates assertions that the system needs to change outnumber concrete ideas about reforming the system. This is understandable as every potential solution seems to carry with it a heavy economic or political price tag. Below are a few of the more common ways to reform Social Security and the risks political and economic they bring.
Currently Social Securitys cost of living adjustment is determined by using the traditional Consumer Price Index. The chained CPI however attempts to reflect how consumers change their spending habits in response to price changesbuying chicken when the price of steak goes up for example. While this will mean smaller benefits it could particularly hurt older beneficiaries.
The very fact that it raises money shows that less money is going to people says Monique Morrissey an economist at the liberal Economic Policy Institute. The oldest old tend to be the poorer population in Social Security.
Proponents of this solution point out that life expectancies have grown meaning that beneficiaries receive benefits for longer and thus can and should also work longer. Raising the eligibility age for full benefits is a solution that makes logical sense but could mean hardship for some. Some people have easy jobs that they really love and some people have jobs that they dont want to do at years old like assembly line work says David Shulman senior economist at UCLAs Anderson Forecast. Morrissey points out that raising the retirement age thus means a benefit cut for many as workers are first eligible for benefitsalbeit reducedat . Raising the normal retirement age doesnt directly in any way affect when people retire it just reduces how much they get at any given age she says.
This is one of the only concrete ideas that any candidate put forward during the Republican Tea Party presidential debate this week in which Herman Cain and Newt Gingrich both advocated optional personal accounts. Morrissey believes that this option however is not viable. In general the private account thing has been pretty much discredited she says pointing to President George W. Bushs unsuccessful attempt to partially privatize Social Security. The logistics of changing over to such a system are also problematic to say the least. If people were allowed to invest that money themselves privately they could get a higher rate of return. Thats true of course says Viard. The flaw of course is what happens to people who are retired now he says. As current workers payments into the system go to current retirees a shift to privatization could hurt those beneficiaries. Recent sharp losses in the stock market have also cut into the popularity of such an approach.
Social Security presidential election Rick Perry Newt Gingrich economy 
Some movements are known as reactionary or regressive movements. These aims to reverse the social change .They highlight the importance and greatness of traditional values ideologies and institutional arrangements. They strongly criticize the fast moving changes of the present.
These movements are formed to resist a change that is already taking place in society. These can be directed against social and cultural changes which are already happening in the country.
These are attempts to take the society or a section of it towards a state of perfection. These are loosely structured collectivities that envision a radically changed and blissful state either on a large scale at some time in the future or on a smaller scale in the present. The Utopian ideal and the means of it are often vague but many utopian movements have quite specific programmes for social change. The Hare Krishna Movement of the seventies the movement towards the establishment of Ram Rajya and the Sangh Parivar the Communists and Socialists pronouncement of a movement towards the classless casteless society free from all kinds of exploitation etc.
Peasant movement is defined by Kathleen Gough as an attempt of a group to effect change in the face of resistance and the peasant are people who are engaged in an agricultural or related production with primitive means who surrender part of their or its equivalent to landlords or to agents of change. The history of peasant movements can be traced to colonial period when repressive economic policies the new land revenue system the colonial administrative and judicial system and the ruin of handicrafts leading to the overcrowding of land transformed the agrarian structure and impoverished the peasantry. In the zamindari system peasants were left to the mercies of the Zamindars who exploited them in form of illegal dues. The British government levied heavy land revenue in the Ryotwari areas. Peasants were forced to borrow money from the moneylenders and they were reduced to the status of tenants at will share croppers and landless laborers while their lands crops and cattle passed into the hands to landlords trader moneylenders and such peasants. When the peasants could take it no longer they resisted against the oppression and exploitation through uprisings. Peasant Movements occupy an important place in the history of social unrest in India though the aims and objectives of these movements differ in nature and degree from region to region. It is in this sense that these movements also aimed at the unification of the peasants of a region development of leadership ideology and a peasant elite. Through these movements emerged a new power structure and peasant alliance. The genesis of peasant movements rest in the relationship patterns of different social categories existing within the framework of feudal and semi feudal structure of our society. In the post Independence period the nature and objectives of the peasant movement have changed to getting remunerative prices for agricultural produce to increase agricultural production to establish parity between prices of agricultural produce and industrial goods and to get minimum wages for the agricultural laborers.
The Backward castes have been deprived of many social economic political and religious privileges. These people provided manual labor and the untouchables occupied the lowest position among the caste hierarchy. They were subjected to extreme form of exploitation. The colonial power accentuated the disparities in the distribution of economic power. The atrocities united the lower castes against the upper castes. Some of the important backward caste movement which came up was Satyashodak Samaj and Nadar Movement which consolidated the masses along the castelines.E.V Ramaswamy started SelfRespect movement against the Brahmins in South India. The SNDP movement in Kerala was more of a reformist movement. In s there was a widespread desire among the nonBrahmin castes to be categorized as Backward .Subsequently Backward Class commission was set up to look into the conditions and requirements of these classes. Mandal Commission submitted its report in recommending reservations for backward castes in educational institutions and government offices. However this move resulted in anti Mandal Commission movement which resulted in large scale violence and many students lost their lives.
Dalits are the suppressed people at the lost rung of the castbased hierarchy. Their inferior occupations and low levels of ascriptive status make them vulnerable for attacks at the hands of uppercaste people. The organizational efforts made by Dalit leadership for uplifting their status are known as Dalit movement. It is a protest against untouchability casteism and discrimination faced by the dalits.Dalit movement indicates some trends of protest ideologies which entail the following withdrawal and self organization high varna status and extolling of nonAryan cultures virtues abandoning of Hinduism and embracing other religions like Buddhism and Islam. Mahatma Gandhi in founded the All India Harijan Sevak Sangh to start education and schools for the dalits.Another most important dalit leader Dr.Ambedkar struggled to secure the basic human dignity to the dalits.The Mahad Satyagarh for the right of water led by him was one of the outstanding movements of the dalits to win equal social rights. The role of All India Depressed Classes Association and All India Depressed Classes Federation were the principal organizations which initiated a movement to improve the conditions of the dalits.These organizations aimed at improving their miserable conditions and to spread education among them. They worked to secure rights of admission to school drawing water from the public wells entering the temples and to use the roads.
AFID Dr. Jasser spoke to Fox News about the Obama administrations threeday summit purportedly focused on countering. doubled down Thursday on his strategy for confronting terrorism one that increasingly speaks of longterm social solutions but.
The Shoka sorrow suffering and agony was only the genesis of most of the scholarly scriptures of our great country. from division poverty lack of opportunity social injustice etc. All the countries in the world were built only due to the.
.and emotionally. While corporate social responsibility efforts have reached a critical point in time with much learning and. defects stand to gain the most from social reforms. This year let us not disappoint our children.
.constructive if it results in positive economic and social reforms. Its our view that Thailands longterm economic and. reforms. To understand the political and economic structure of Thailand it is important to understand the trinity of the king.
What is a Social Entrepreneur and Why Should You Blog about ItPositive Psychology and Mental ContrastingA social. corporations and the notforprofit sectors. While most social entrepreneurs are unknown they are quiet
.. Crowdfunding challenges this concept by demanding a Social Return on Investment SROI which assesses the value and benefit to a. social reforms that are desperately needed across Greece to prevent furtherfuture economic crises. In the event that the.
.to thrive in relative isolation. However once the junta opened up to political and social reforms in and . both international and local with a focus upon corporate social responsibility CSR stakeholder engagement and natural.
.give life. Finally good news for some social benefits is sometimes bad news for others taxes. And yet we are far more. sound manner. Finally some social reforms not expensive on the fabric of peoples way of life and the demise of the double.
.taking over as premier on March Zhu described his programme of reforms as one guarantee and three achievements. pursued. Among SOE and social reforms Zhu first and foremost called for an overhaul of Chinas banking and financial system.
.. Political Stability Future business in Iran will be impacted by political change. This may be organic as economic and social reforms evolve or this may be more volatile if further political unrest reoccurs. Many people forget that the precursor to.
Africa is becoming an increasingly attractive hub for foreign investors in light of various economic political and social reforms that are sweeping
.american networks of the expanding multinational corporations. C. Wright Mills historical analysis of the american social. economic and social reforms from to which were implemented by a political alliance between a liberal middle class.
.authority for social order. The third level or the Post Conventional level of moral development stems from principled. moral development there would not have been a Rosa Parks in America or a Raja Ram Mohan Roy in India. All social reforms and.
The answer to this question depends upon your reasons and motivation. I have been teaching Hindi language for nigh on. gist of a conversation but often have no opportunity or reasons to speak it. Recent economic progress and social reforms in.
Some movements are known as reactionary or regressive movements. These aims to reverse the social change .They highlight the importance and greatness of traditional values ideologies and institutional arrangements. They strongly criticize the fast moving changes of the present.
These movements are formed to resist a change that is already taking place in society. These can be directed against social and cultural changes which are already happening in the country.
These are attempts to take the society or a section of it towards a state of perfection. These are loosely structured collectivities that envision a radically changed and blissful state either on a large scale at some time in the future or on a smaller scale in the present. The Utopian ideal and the means of it are often vague but many utopian movements have quite specific programmes for social change. The Hare Krishna Movement of the seventies the movement towards the establishment of Ram Rajya and the Sangh Parivar the Communists and Socialists pronouncement of a movement towards the classless casteless society free from all kinds of exploitation etc.
Peasant movement is defined by Kathleen Gough as an attempt of a group to effect change in the face of resistance and the peasant are people who are engaged in an agricultural or related production with primitive means who surrender part of their or its equivalent to landlords or to agents of change. The history of peasant movements can be traced to colonial period when repressive economic policies the new land revenue system the colonial administrative and judicial system and the ruin of handicrafts leading to the overcrowding of land transformed the agrarian structure and impoverished the peasantry. In the zamindari system peasants were left to the mercies of the Zamindars who exploited them in form of illegal dues. The British government levied heavy land revenue in the Ryotwari areas. Peasants were forced to borrow money from the moneylenders and they were reduced to the status of tenants at will share croppers and landless laborers while their lands crops and cattle passed into the hands to landlords trader moneylenders and such peasants. When the peasants could take it no longer they resisted against the oppression and exploitation through uprisings. Peasant Movements occupy an important place in the history of social unrest in India though the aims and objectives of these movements differ in nature and degree from region to region. It is in this sense that these movements also aimed at the unification of the peasants of a region development of leadership ideology and a peasant elite. Through these movements emerged a new power structure and peasant alliance. The genesis of peasant movements rest in the relationship patterns of different social categories existing within the framework of feudal and semi feudal structure of our society. In the post Independence period the nature and objectives of the peasant movement have changed to getting remunerative prices for agricultural produce to increase agricultural production to establish parity between prices of agricultural produce and industrial goods and to get minimum wages for the agricultural laborers.
The Backward castes have been deprived of many social economic political and religious privileges. These people provided manual labor and the untouchables occupied the lowest position among the caste hierarchy. They were subjected to extreme form of exploitation. The colonial power accentuated the disparities in the distribution of economic power. The atrocities united the lower castes against the upper castes. Some of the important backward caste movement which came up was Satyashodak Samaj and Nadar Movement which consolidated the masses along the castelines.E.V Ramaswamy started SelfRespect movement against the Brahmins in South India. The SNDP movement in Kerala was more of a reformist movement. In s there was a widespread desire among the nonBrahmin castes to be categorized as Backward .Subsequently Backward Class commission was set up to look into the conditions and requirements of these classes. Mandal Commission submitted its report in recommending reservations for backward castes in educational institutions and government offices. However this move resulted in anti Mandal Commission movement which resulted in large scale violence and many students lost their lives.
Dalits are the suppressed people at the lost rung of the castbased hierarchy. Their inferior occupations and low levels of ascriptive status make them vulnerable for attacks at the hands of uppercaste people. The organizational efforts made by Dalit leadership for uplifting their status are known as Dalit movement. It is a protest against untouchability casteism and discrimination faced by the dalits.Dalit movement indicates some trends of protest ideologies which entail the following withdrawal and self organization high varna status and extolling of nonAryan cultures virtues abandoning of Hinduism and embracing other religions like Buddhism and Islam. Mahatma Gandhi in founded the All India Harijan Sevak Sangh to start education and schools for the dalits.Another most important dalit leader Dr.Ambedkar struggled to secure the basic human dignity to the dalits.The Mahad Satyagarh for the right of water led by him was one of the outstanding movements of the dalits to win equal social rights. The role of All India Depressed Classes Association and All India Depressed Classes Federation were the principal organizations which initiated a movement to improve the conditions of the dalits.These organizations aimed at improving their miserable conditions and to spread education among them. They worked to secure rights of admission to school drawing water from the public wells entering the temples and to use the roads.
The Moscow Times . . 
Demonstrators blocked the streets of Paris on March in protest against El Khomris labour law reforms.
Demonstrators blocked the streets of Paris on March in protest against El Khomris labour law reforms.
Valdis Dombrovskis the European Commissioner for the Euro and Social Dialogue has welcomed Frances controversial labour law reforms which directly respond to the EU executives criticisms of the French economy. EurActiv France reports.
Dombrovskis had difficulty keeping up with his busy schedule in Paris on Thursday March where he attended a meeting with the OECD lunch with the Minister of the Economy Emmanuel Macron and dinner with the Minister of Finance Michel Sapin. The Latvian who is one of seven vicepresidents in the Juncker Commission was held up by public transport strikes and other demonstrations against the French labour law reforms currently being carried through the legislature by the Minister of Labour Myriam El Khomry.
With France still under a Commissionimposed excessive deficit procedure labour reform is a highly pertinent subject. El Khomrys initiative will address the rigidities of the labour market and should boost employment Dombrovskis told a group of journalists. The Latvian Commissioner who shares responsibility for economic affairs with the French Commissioner Pierre Moscovici is known for his liberal economic views.
In its annual country report on France published at the end of February the Commission dedicated around ten pages to the French labour market which it considers the biggest obstacle facing the countrys economy.
But on this day of demonstration and popular opposition Dombrovskis adopted a magnanimous attitude. We are paying close attention to the political debate and we understand that this bill must strike the right balance he said referring to the measures already withdrawn from the bill notably those on trade union negotiations.
It is clear that these proposed reforms are a direct response to demands from Brussels as they follow very closely the executives own analysis of the French economy. According to the experts in Brussels Frances weak job creation and slow economic growth are down to the structural rigidity of its economy particularly the difficulty employers have in laying off staff rather than other factors like a chronic lack of investment or the shift towards a more automated service economy.
Unemployment in France has stood at for too long. The country needs to commit to a rapid reform process Dombrovskis said. The Commissioner also stressed that the countrys growth forecast of just . significantly lower than that of the eurozone as a whole and the EU average which is closer to would harm its economic progress.
This view is not shared by everyone particularly on the left. The economist Thomas Piketty wrote in his blog that unemployment was below before the financial crisis and blamed the current poor statistics on an inadequate effort to relaunch the economy and the weak handling of the crisis.
French President Franois Hollande said Wednesday March his government would find billion in new savings this year to meet demands from Brussels.
But this deficit reduction has more to do with cyclical than structural factors the Latvian Commissioner conceded adding that he was concerned about other decisions that could undermine this progress. Low interest rates may have cut the cost of debt but other factors may still upset the balance of the budget like the fact that Paris has chosen to take its dividend from EDF in shares rather than in cash and a planned civil service pay rise scheduled for July. Both of these changes will reduce the funds available to the state.
Given the global situation the most important thing is economic growth Spains Economic Affairs minister Luis de Guindos said after the Ecofin council on Friday February.
Of course they do wouldnt expect them to side with the French people would we.
another reason or another example all points to EU medalling in national affairs and another point on the for out list with in the UK.
More than half a century of sweeping educational reforms have done little to improve Britains social mobility according to one of the countrys leading experts on equality.
Instead young people from less welloff families entering todays labour market have far less favourable prospects than their parents or even their grandparents despite having gained much better qualifications.
Giving the British Academy sociology lecture on March Dr John Goldthorpe a sociologist at the University of Oxford whose work on class has proven widely influential will claim that little has changed in British society since the second world war largely because more advantaged families are using their economic cultural and social advantages to ensure that their children remain at the top of the social class ladder.
The new findings offer a sobering corrective to the prevailing view favoured by successive governments that improving access to education has been a powerful weapon in promoting social mobility in Britain.
Successive governments committed to increasing mobility have regarded educational policy as the essential means to this end Goldthorpe observes. Yet despite all this expansion and reform inequalities in relative mobility chances have remained little altered.
Goldthorpe and colleagues at the University of Oxfords department of social policy and intervention analysed the social origins education and work histories of about men and women born in the s s s and s. Their work shows that people born in Britain in the s and s have tended to be less upwardly mobile than their parents and grandparents while an increasing number of men and women have started to drop down the social ladder.
They attribute the upward mobility from the s to the s to a major expansion of professional and managerial jobs during a period that Goldthorpe terms the golden age of social mobility.
But conversely the progress made by this generation means that an increasing number of their children are now at heightened risk of moving down the social ladder.
The dark side of the golden age is that more individuals are now experiencing social descent and fewer social ascent simply because the numbers at risk of the former have increased Goldthorpe says. A situation is emerging that is quite new in modern British history. Young people entering the labour market today face far less favourable mobility prospects than did their parents or their grandparents.
Goldthorpe an emeritus fellow of Nuffield College Oxford came up with the Goldthorpe class schema which led to the creation of the widely used national statistics socioeconomic classification system. His lecture will help continue the debate about schisms within British society.
On Saturday the governments social mobility adviser Alan Milburn chair of the Social Mobility and Child Poverty Commission warned in the Guardian that there was a risk that Britain would become permanently divided as a result of growing intergenerational inequality.
This idea that the succeeding generation would do better than the previous generation is part of the glue that binds Milburn said. I was brought up to believe that if you stuck in at school youd get on in life. Unfortunately theres pretty compelling data to suggest that may no longer be the case.
Goldthorpes lecture is likely to reinforce this view. There are good grounds for believing consistent with the psychological theory of loss aversion that parents and their children are yet more concerned to avoid downward mobility than they are to achieve upward mobility he will claim. And thus parents in more advantaged class positions will respond to any expansion or reform of the educational system by using their own superior resources economic cultural and social to whatever extent it takes to help their children retain a competitive edge in the system and in turn in the labour market.
It is this coming together of the strong motivation to avoid dclassement and the usually adequate means for doing so that is the source of the powerful resistance to change.
If things are to change Goldthorpe argues that governments must focus on policies that go beyond simply promoting economic growth. These would include new initiatives to increase funding for research and development to improve the countrys infrastructure and to raise the quality of its public services.
What can be achieved through educational policy alone is limited far more so than politicians find it convenient to suppose Goldthorpe argues. To look to the educational system itself to provide a solution to the problem of inequality of opportunity is to impose an undue burden on it. Rather a whole range of economic and social policies is needed.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments but please come back later to add your own.
Labors six years in government will be remembered as at best a time of supercharged social reform and at worst a period of profligacy and chaos.
Or as former Labor PM Bob Hawke described it in the last days of this election campaign a bloody mixed bag.
In Labors Kevin became Australias th Prime Minister and seized on the national mood by addressing signature issues that marked a repudiation of John Howards years at the helm.
Mr Rudd signed Australia up to the Kyoto protocol on climate change dismantled Howards Pacific Solution and delivered the official National Apology to the Stolen Generations an action he will arguably be most fondly remembered for.
But he and his frontbench team were soon faced with a mighty economic challenge protecting Australia from the global financial crisis GFC.
In late and early the Rudd government responded by spending more than billion to bolster the economy sending out oneoff cash payments of to pensioners families and low to middleincome earners and building new school infrastructure.
The feared recession never took hold but even so it proved difficult for Labor to capitalise on a victory over an absent foe.
Indeed some of the stimulus measures became a source of scandal in coming years.
At the end of Mr Rudd moved on what has been a defining and vexing issue for both political parties in the past two terms of government climate change.
He announced his emissions trading scheme with an ambitious target of a per cent reduction in carbon emissions by .
Soon after ructions over that issue and others within the Coalition left Mr Rudd facing a more aggressive Opposition Leader when Malcolm Turnbull who had backed an emissions trading scheme ETS was dumped by one vote for Tony Abbott.
Opposition to the ETS was bolstered by a nonresult at the international climate change conference in Copenhagen the same month an event now infamous in Australia for Rudds reported accusation that the Chinese delegation were trying to rat f us.
Adding to the troubling mood surrounding climate change the governments home insulation scheme part of one of the economic stimulus packages set up to tackle the GFC was suspended and then canned following the deaths of four insulation installers and scores of house fires.
The Prime Minister demoted star frontbencher Peter Garrett stripping him of his climate change responsibilities.
Another stimulus measure the Building the Education Revolution which paid for new buildings and infrastructure at schools was also subject to attack over claims of rorting and mismanagement.
Desperately keen to change the subject Mr Rudd launched a multibillion health and hospitals plan in March and spent weeks visiting hospitals and health centres spruiking its virtues. 
By April every state and territory had signed up accepting the offer of Commonwealth control of per cent of hospital funding bar Western Australia.
But the national conversation was inexorably drawn back to an ETS when Mr Rudd put it on the backburner effectively dumping it until at least.
Within the same week attacks on Labors economic credibility opened on another front when he and then Treasurer Wayne Swan announced a new tax on the super profits of the big mining companies.
By now Mr Rudds approval ratings had fallen from the heady heights of his nascent days as PM to what would normally be considered more reasonable levels.
The June passing of Australias first paid parental leave scheme through Parliament like the historic boost to pensions the previous year failed to garner much traction and were outweighed by criticism of Labors agenda.
The Governments inability to sell its achievements was already acknowledged as a core failing.
On June factional leaders put their weight behind Julia Gillard to oust Mr Rudd.
The next day caucus numbers were so clearly behind Mr Rudds deputy that he did not even stand in the leadership ballot.
Ms Gillard became Australias th Prime Minister the first woman in the job in a bloodless coup a change she defended by saying a good government had lost its way.
Pledging to tackle a trifecta of political trouble asylum seekers the mining tax and carbon emissions Ms Gillard swiftly called an election.
But her campaign faltered over a promise to show the real Julia and was further hamstrung by damaging leaks the source of which has never been pinpointed though Ms Rudds critics have no doubt where to lay the blame.
The election resulted in a hung parliament the first since WWII but days later after intense negotiations with Lower House independents and the Greens Ms Gillard prevailed.
The Opposition mounted a furious campaign against Ms Gillard from the beginning of Australias rd Parliament and many pundits questioned how long it would last.
But against the odds and due in no small part to the Prime Ministers negotiation skills she held the minority government together to serve a full term and steered a record number of bills through the Parliament.
But they included controversially legislation to bring in a carbon tax that would eventually cede to an emissions trading scheme.
The added sting came from Gillards campaign promise that there would be no carbon tax under a government I lead.
The tax became the focus of a relentless barrage of attack from the Mr Abbott who kept his team on a warfooting in the hope of tipping the delicate parliamentary balance his way.
But it was far from the only failing Mr Abbott seized on in what he recently described as a targetrich environment. 
On asylum seekers Ms Gillards solution began with an aim of establishing offshore processing in East Timor. That fell over without any agreement from the Timorese government. 
A peopleswap plan with Malaysia collapsed when the High Court ruled it invalid. 
Pokies reform tougher media laws the new mining tax the scandals surrounding former Labor MP Craig Thomson and former LiberalturnedSpeaker of the House Peter Slipper were all grist for the Opposition mill.
It drowned out Ms Gillards catchcry on improving education through the socalled Gonski funding plan and other social measures such as the plain packaging of cigarettes and establishing a royal commission into child abuse.
Perhaps the only reform that rose above the mudslinging was the national disability insurance scheme NDIS perhaps because it won solid bipartisan support.
Her misogyny speech in October became a global hit but more often it was she who was the target of sexist protest signs and even a menu written up for a Liberal party fundraiser.
Dogged also by poor polling the Prime Minister could never escape the genesis of her leadership nor could her party ever rise above the deep enmities within.
Party elder Simon Crean lit the first match in February with a blistering attack on Mr Rudd accusing him of disloyalty. 
It sparked a spill of the leadership and in the days leading up to it a conflagration in ALP ranks with the Gillard camp publicly denouncing her rival one even called Mr Rudd a psychopath.
Eighteen months after she ousted him from the job Ms Gillard again prevailed but the damage to the party was done.
Again just over a year later Ms Gillard was forced to call another spill this time Mr Rudd failed to even challenge acknowledging he did not have enough support in caucus.
In June this year the final sitting week became the killing season for Ms Gillard.
A third attempt by the Rudd forces succeeded in bringing him back to the Lodge as the partys best chance of victory at this election.
But his return came at a heavy price for Labor even without Saturday nights cost. 
The turmoil claimed the scalps of several prominent frontbenchers Greg Combet Craig Emerson Mr Crean Martin Ferguson Peter Garrett Stephen Smith not to mention Ms Gillard herself.
The mixed bag of the past six years has ended with Australias oldest political party brought to its knees at the hands of the electorate.
Labor in Opposition now faces the crushing task of trying to get to its feet again and mount winning arguments against a triumphant and dominant incoming Coalition government.
Labor is increasingly confident its candidate for the WA seat of Cowan Anne Aly will be electedwhich would make her the first female Muslimin Australias parliament.
Malcolm Turnbull wanted an exciting time. Hes got it writes Lateline political correspondent David Lipson.
One of Malcolm Turnbulls key reasons for calling a double dissolution election was to clean out the crossbench for a more functional Senate. The result is anything but.
This service may include material from Agence FrancePresse AFP APTN Reuters AAP CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST Australian Eastern Standard Time which is hours ahead of UTC Greenwich Mean Time
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News My Clippings My Comments and user settings.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below you can go to our login page.
A hung parliament looks a distinct possibility with Labor and the Coalition neckandneck in the latest FairfaxIpsos poll.
Australians yet again face the daunting prospect of deciding which politicians to run the nation for us all not just the vested interests behind the scenes.
Voters have to trust candidates and parties on economic reformto create jobs and apply a steady hand through uncertain times.
We need trust on social reform to decidewho will lift up the desolate and give everyone a fair go.
Such trust can be sadly misplaced. When the Herald supported Tony Abbott at the election we criticised his negativity. But given Labors dysfunction at the time we thought Mr Abbott deserved a chance to unite a tired and despondent nation.
Mr Abbott fundamentally betrayed the nations trust on governance fairness social cohesion and policy development.
Labor leader Bill Shorten has promised many strong and progressive policies. To earn government Labor needs to make a compelling case for change not from the failed Abbott experiment but from a Turnbull government barely nine months old.
Would people recall how Labor helped get Australia through the global financial crisis They should. The Herald believes Labor can be a competent economic manager but its decision to plan larger deficits for the next four years is risky to say the least. It feeds into a broader stereotype that the party spends now and pays later. Labors bigger tax take plan is not bad per se given it reflects a crackdown on negative gearing capital gains tax and superannuation tax breaks where they are bad value for money. And while we remain sceptical about the extent of benefit from the Coalitions billion corporate tax cuts building confidence is crucial for investment and households. Businesses small and large create jobs. Mr Shorten has struggled to offer a longterm job creation alternative. Uncertainty has also emerged over his plans for superannuation and health spending as well as the reliability of his year budget revenue estimates.
We asked if voters could trust Mr Shorten to rein in corrupt unions. The Herald thinks not. Labor remains opposed to more rigorousunion governance a building industry watchdog and sensible changes to penalty rates. There is no sign at all that Mr Shorten will force Labor to remove the disproportionate influence of unions and their money on his party.
Having deferred proper economic and budget repair would his eventual reform plan be fair The Coalitions focus on tax cuts as a jobs engine offers fairness if it works.On the budget Mr Turnbullinheritedincompletepolicy work with many measuresditched for political expediency. Given his own mandate Mr Turnbull would have the chance to explore new approaches.By contrast despite having lateral thinkers like shadow treasurer Chris Bowen Labor baulks at progress that affects the public service and unions.DisturbinglyMr Shorten revealed a closed mind on outsourcing back office functions in Medicare. And his judgment was found wanting by claiming that this election was a referendum on Medicare privatisation.
But wouldMr Turnbulls addition to schools and hospital funding be enough to offset the billion in cuts that linger from the appalling AbbottHockey budget of No. The Coalition has yet to tackle the crucial shortfall in schools and hospital support. Labor by contrast has stronger and largely costed plans for these areas.
And how could Mr Turnbull address climate change given the number of sceptics in the Coalition Yes his climate policy remains under a cloud. Butas part of an overall future jobs and economic policy the safeguards mechanism within Direct Action is ready to be morphed into a more effective marketbased emissions reduction scheme.
And could Mr Turnbull deliver steady unified government Noone can say for sure. The key will be the scale of any Turnbull election victory. A strong mandate would give him significant leadership certainty against Mr Abbott the power to rein in the extremes and greater sway with minority senators.
But having assuaged the right so much can Mr Turnbull be trusted to argue for samesex marriage Indigenous recognition multiculturalism and a republic The answer to most of these questions is yes and reassuringly Mr Turnbull has grown stronger in proclaiming and articulating his support for some of these key social policies during the course of the campaign.
The Heralds editorial columns reflect the view of what the editorinchief believes is in the public interest just as they have since . The editorial position has no effect on the Heraldsfiercelyindependent reporting of the news. Wedonot tell readers how to vote. We respect the myriad views and priorities in the community. We understand why people might support candidates outside the major parties. Realistically though the government will come from Labor or the Coalition.
If Australia gets this decision right the nation should enjoy the economic strength and social progress to create greater opportunities for all. Given the choice between a Coalition led by the socially progressive economic reformer Mr Turnbull and a Shortenled Labor party backed by reformresistant unions we support the election of a Turnbull government.
With the election count going down to the wire who will be reach the magic number of seats Fairfaxs Peter Martin explains. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife.
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems.
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants.
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens.
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals.
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan.
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education.
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up.
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported.
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving.
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter.
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s.
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s.
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual.
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist.
Plans for the most radical reform of social housing in a generation have been announced by communities ministers.
The changes will bring a fundamental shift of power from Whitehall to councils and local housing associations.
Housing Minister Grant Shapps said the current centrallydetermined rules to allocate social homes are unfair and despite billion of investment in new social housing over the last years have caused the number of people on waiting lists to nearly double to million people while social homes remain overcrowded and underoccupied.
Councils will now be given more flexibility to use their social housing stock to the maximum effect and drive down waiting lists which currently stand at million people. Housing Associations will also be given the option to offer new affordable rents and use this revenue to build more affordable homes.
Proposals have been published to make the system fairer. Councils will have greater local discretion to decide allocations and the option to offer flexible tenancies.
Councils will also have more flexibility to help homeless families and existing tenants who may be trapped in unsuitable accommodation or who are unable to take up a job offer because they cant move.
The rules will strike a sensible balance between the needs of new and existing tenants and ensure the support that social housing provides is focussed on the most vulnerable and those who need it most for as long as they need it.
For far too long in this country there has been a lazy consensus about the use of social housing which has left of our most valuable resources trapped in a system that helps far fewer people than it should.
The new system will protect the most vulnerable in society ensuring those in greatest housing need are given priority. It will also be more flexible with councils and housing associations able to offer fixed tenancies that give people the helping hand they need when they need it. But above all it will be fairer councils will now be able to make decisions that genuinely meet the needs of local people and the changes will notaffect any existing tenants.
To have million people stuck on social housing waiting lists is unacceptable clearly this system is broken and needs a radical overhaul.
We need to have a much smarter system that protects lifetime tenancies but also provides the flexibility to ensure that help is targeted at people who really need it and enables us to get more for every pound of taxpayers money. In times of economic hardship it is vital that social housing is effective in helping people get back on their feet.
Dont include personal or financial information eg your National Insurance number or credit card details.
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v. except where otherwise stated
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife.
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems.
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants.
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens.
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals.
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan.
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education.
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up.
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported.
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving.
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter.
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s.
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s.
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual.
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist.
BEIJING China unwrapped its boldest set of economic and social reforms in nearly three decades on Friday relaxing its onechild policy and further freeing up markets in order to put the worlds secondlargest economy on a more stable footing.
The sweeping changes helped dispel doubts about the leaderships zest for the reforms needed to give the economy fresh momentum as three decades of breakneck expansion shows signs of faltering. However the reforms may take years.
A document released by the Communist Party following a fourday conclave of its senior leaders promised land and residence registration reforms needed to boost Chinas urban population and allow its transition to a westernstyle services and consumptiondriven economy.
Pricing of fuels electricity and other key resources now a source of major distortions would be mainly decided by markets while Beijing also pledged to speed up the opening of its capital account and further financial liberalization.
The reforms are unprecedented said Xu Hongcai senior economist at the China Centre for International Economic Exchanges a wellconnected Beijing think tank. Reforms in s were limited to some areas now reforms are allround.
Analysts suggested the plans are the most significant since Deng Xiaoping led a series of reforms in the late s and the early s. Those changes eventually opened up the country to the outside world and set it on course to become the champion economy of emerging markets.
President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang appointed in March announced several breakthroughs in social policy pledging to unify rural and urban social security systems and to abolish controversial labor camps.
The point plan more comprehensive and specific than initially thought also eased concerns that Xi would need months if not years to take full charge of Chinas vast party and government bureaucracy.
Chinawatchers took the establishment of a working group to lead economic reform and a new State Security Council as further signs of how effectively Xi had managed to consolidate power just eight months after he officially took over.
This is much more of a topdown systemic leadership compared to the s and s. Compared to previous generations this is a remarkably robust leadership said Dali Yang a political science professor at the University of Chicago.
Still Xi and his team gave themselves until to achieve decisive results a tacit acknowledgement of the risks involved in Beijings balancing act between letting market forces eventually take over and preserving financial and social stability and the Communist Partys political monopoly.
The experience of the past decade is also a reason why many economists and international observers view Beijings bold reform plans with guarded optimism.
Just like Xi and Li the previous leadership promised to overhaul Chinas economy and kick its addiction to rapid investment and creditfuelled growth but left it saddled with more debt industrial overcapacity pollution and financial strains.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew echoed that caution during a stopover in Beijing on his Asian tour describing the plans as ambitious and noting that key was how soon they would become reality.
The direction is significant but the character and the pace of change matters Lew told reporters.
The initial brief reform outline published on Tuesday triggered a stock market selloff with investors taking its scant details as a sign of a lack of commitment on Xis part or his failure to overcome resistance of vested interests such as powerful stateowned companies.
But a raft of specific policy plans ranging from interest rate and currency regime liberalization to residence registration and land reforms and the pledge to allow more competition seemed to put such concerns to rest.
According to the document the government had decided to work toward an independent judiciary courts would be appropriately separated from local governments.
Under government reform it relaxed the need for government approval on projects and said the performance of local officials would be rated on measures other than just economic growth such as in environmental protection.
The commitment to abolish reeducation through labor camps was also remarkable given that several political sources had told Reuters this was an area where Xi was facing much resistance.
Few commentators had also expected any significant attempts to take on powerful state monopolies even though many economists argue that loosening the stranglehold of big stateowned firms on markets from banking to energy was key to success of other reforms.
The initial outline of the plans on Tuesday had affirmed those firms strategic role in the economy. But the longer report on Friday raised state firm dividend payments allowed private firms to enter some of the protected sectors and encouraged them to take part in reforming the stateowned firms.
Chinese leaders are acutely aware of what is at stake as years of rapid growth come to an end. Having been the factory to the world they want to avoid the socalled middleincome trap where wealth creation stagnates as market share is lost to lowercost rivals.
The World Bank says Chinas per capita GDP was last year compared with in South Korea in Hong Kong and in Singapore Asian peers that have succeeded in making such a transition.
What appeared to be a leak of the document on Chinese social media earlier on Friday set off a rally in Chinese stock markets hours before its official release with investors cheering its relatively detailed language on reforms.
Still economists said that having a good plan was only part of the success and making the ambitious agenda a reality would be the new leaders true challenge.
Based on the headlines . they are moving in a positive direction said Jan von Gerich fixed income chief analyst with Nordea Bank in Helsinki. But one should not get too carried away as this will be a long process.
Additional reporting by Jason Subler Jonathan Standing Natalie Thomas Aileen Wang Shao Xiaoyi Aizhu Chen Megha Rajagopalan Michael Martina and SuiLee Wee in Beijing the London newsroom Writing by Tomasz Janowski Editing by Neil Fullick
All quotes delayed a minimum of minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays. 
Social Security is never far from the Congressional budget ax. Although its been spared actual cuts to date program defenders have already lost their battle to keep it from being considered for cuts. The battleground thus will be moving to specific reform proposals. Depending on whos talking Social Security is either a runaway fiscal disaster that needs to be overhauled or a healthy program that has done its job and needs only a tweak or two. With the spin doctors in high gear here are factual answers to key statements about the program.
First a little background. Social Security is funded by payroll taxes paid equally by employees and employers. Since each has paid . percent of covered wages up to a ceiling which is currently the first in annual earnings. This tax supports the OldAge Survivors and Disability Insurance OASDI program which has two partsOldAge and Survivors Insurance OASI and Disability Insurance DIpaying monthly benefits to retirees and their families and to disabled workers and their families.
There is also a payroll tax for Medicare that is . percent each for employees and employers there is no earnings ceiling for Medicare taxes. The total tax for both programs for most taxpayers is thus . percent. Selfemployed wage earners must pay this entire amount. The health reform law has tacked on higher Medicare taxes for wealthier taxpayers. They will rise another . percent on wage incomes above in for couples. These same income limits are also being used to trigger a . percent annual tax on net investment income. Heres the history of Social Security taxes.
The last time Social Security was reformed in the early s payroll taxes were raised to make the program selfsupporting and big surpluses began to accrue. By law Social Security must place its surpluses in a special issue of U.S. Treasury securities and the interest on these securities is added to Social Security revenues. The program is also credited with some of the tax revenues that the IRS receives from income taxes on Social Security benefit payments.
Social Security is spending more money in benefits than its taking in. Its broke. Social Security is not broke regardless of how you define the term. Program expenses do exceed the amount of payroll taxes taken in by the program. However the program is still in the black if you include its interest and other income.
We cant afford Social Security. Affordability ultimately comes down to whether you think current payroll tax rates are too steep benefits are too big or some combination of the two. There has been nearly no discussion that payroll tax rates should come down so the affordability question hinges on benefits. There has been some talk of trimming future benefits for higherincome wage earners and perhaps trimming the annual cost of living adjustment COLA. Studies show that lowerincome workers wind up receiving more from Social Security than they paid in taxes while the opposite is true for higherincome wage earners.
Social Security is adding to the deficit. The deficit was a contentious Social Security topic even before Al Gores infamous lock box statements during the presidential race. Narrowly speaking Social Security is distinct from the rest of the federal budget and its defenders say it can neither add to nor reduce the federal deficit. It has its own dedicated tax and relies solely on that tax and the income it earns from investing surplus tax collections.
During and the employee payroll tax was reduced from . to . percent. But this economic stimulus was intended to put more money in consumers hands. The Social Security program happened to be an effective way to accomplish this goal. Social Security was made whole for the cuts and its overall financial position was not affected. Did this stimulus add to the deficit Yes but thats not the same thing as saying Social Security did so.
This issue becomes murkier however because of the legal requirement that Social Security place its excess money into U.S. Treasury securities. Its not as if the feds are holding the programs . trillion surplus in well a lock box. They spent that money a long time ago to fund government operations and gave Social Security an I.O.U. just as they do to everyone else who owns U.S. Treasury debt. Under this view when Social Security must begin cashing in its U.S. Securities to fund its operating deficits Uncle Sam will have to go out and find the real dollars to repay Social Security. How will it find those dollars Of course it will need to sell more U.S. Treasury securities adding to the national debt and to the deficit. In this indirect way at least Social Securitys looming shortfalls would add to the deficit. The villain in this story if there is one would seem not to be the Social Security program itself but overall government fiscal policy.
Proposed changes to Social Security will hurt current retirees. Generally major reform proposals issued so far would have little effect on people and older and would not change benefits for retirees for upwards of years. This primarily involves raising the retirement age and any specific proposals that would affect benefits. An exception could be if the annual cost of living adjustment COLA were made less attractive. That might take effect sooner although opening up the COLA for discussion will also bring out lots of proposals to increase it particularly to reflect sustained inflation in healthcare costs. Another likely reform measure would raise the annual ceiling on taxable earnings but this would affect workers not retirees. There will also be proposals to meanstest Social Security benefits which could affect payments to more affluent retirees. The key there will be the effective date of any changes.
Were all living longer so raising the retirement age is a logical and easy fix. Yes and no. Wealthier people are certainly living longer. People in whitecollar jobs may be living longer. Poorer people are not living longer. The longevity revolution has not worked its magic on them. Many lowerincome Americans take early retirement at because they are worn out by physically demanding jobs. Suggesting these people work until theyre is not realistic. Extending the full retirement age now at and headed to for people born after thus may have its greatest impact on these early retirees. Most proposals that raise the retirement age can only pay for themselves by reducing the relative level of benefits for early retirees. Social Security has analyzed the major reform proposals and assessed their impact on the programs longterm sustainability.
Vacuum cleaner retailer Godfreys has turned to John Hardy the star of its s TV commercials to lead the way
Quotes are realtime for NASDAQ NYSE and NYSEAmex when available. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo Finance partner page. Quotes are updated automatically but will be turned off after minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least minutes. All information provided as is for informational purposes only not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors incompleteness or delays or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo site you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems Inc. CSI. International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Morningstar Inc.
Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths.
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programmes are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife.
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernise the legal and education systems.
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants.
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens.
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals.
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan.
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education.
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centres to make them easier to set up.
An area where the contradictions between modernisation and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported.
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving.
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter.
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s.
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s.
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabiawhere change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual.
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist.
The government of China is faced with a balancing act of preserving high economic growth containing internal social problems maintaining the flow of accessible loans focusing on the huge economic gap between the countryside and megacities and other issues related to Tibet and Xinjiang. At the same time issues related to transparency patent laws internal corruption bad debt working conditions the exploitation of labor the legal system and shadow banking are all major problems for the government of China. After all the onepartystate of the Chinese Communist Party CCP is focused on maintaining high economic growth in order to propup the political system from major social ills. Therefore economic growth is the parameter in relation to social stability in this nation state.
Indeed the duality of economic growth and petty nationalism are areas where the CCP can escape from the stresses of a future Tiananmen Square uprising. This reality means that the legacy of economic growth based on the late Deng Xiaoping is the continuing mantra in modern day China. Deng Xiaoping in many ways was the real revolutionary when it came to focusing heavily on economic growth and openingup China within certain constraints.
Deng Xiaoping was a pragmatist in China during the difficult period of the Cultural Revolution. He stated bravely it doesnt matter if a cat is black or white so long as it catches mice.
This one powerful political leader paid a heavy price for his pragmatism. However true to Deng Xiaoping he understood the need to help the people of China alongside preserving all the positives of the CCP that had enabled China to survive during a very traumatic period of history. This applies to Western colonial powers ravaging China like a pack of hounds during the late nineteenth and early twentieth century Japanese Imperialism and other brutal realities that impinged heavily on the people of China prior to breaking free from outside control. Deng Xiaoping knew all this too well because he lived during such a traumatic period. Yet the uniqueness of Deng Xiaoping is that he also fully understood the pitfalls of many areas within the CCP that were holding China back from progressing in the fields of economics science modernization and other important areas.
Of course Deng Xiaoping wanted to preserve the power and influence of the CCP but he wanted this done with a human face and whereby the people of China could progress and enjoy the fruits of their labor. It is all too easy to judge Deng Xiaoping within the negativity of the CCP in relation to the Cultural Revolution and other areas whereby freedom was crushed. Yet Deng Xiaoping had to work within the prevailing system of China during the excesses of the Cultural Revolution and other periods of major power abuses. Despite this he still believed that China would one day open up in order to move to the next stage of developing China under a new and vibrant CCP.
Deng Xiaoping during the Tiananmen Square crisis in showed clearly that he put the survival of the CCP before all else because in his worldview the modernization of China could only develop under this political organization. Also for Deng Xiaoping then individuals must remember that he witnessed the ravages of international imperialism humiliating China the Japanese Imperial era the brutality of World War Two the untold suffering during the Cultural Revolution and other important areas in relation to suffering. However he believed wholeheartedly that if the CCP lost power then China would go backward and be threatened by the intrigues of outside powers. Therefore irrespective of how people perceive the Tiananmen Square crisis it would appear inconceivable today that China would be the number two economic power in the world if the CCP had been overthrown in the late s.
Indeed the remarkable nature of Deng Xiaoping comes into play during this delicate period of history. After all the events of merely convinced him to focus even more on economic prosperity openingup regionally restructuring on excesses in relation to power concentration and other important areas in relation to modernizing China. Deng Xiaoping statedthe next three to five years will be extremely difficult for our Party and our country extremely important. If we collapse Chinas history will regress for several tens of years even a hundred years.
Since Deng Xiaoping passed away in his legacy continues today in modern China because he turned the corner for this nation in the area of economic growth opening up internationally scientific projects and modernization. The political convulsions of Tiananmen Square in clearly remain within the psyche of the CCP in modern day China. Therefore economic growth and opening up internally and externally within certain political restraints have been the backbone of China since the real revolution which took place under Deng Xiaoping. However issues related to social reforms are equally essential alongside maintaining economic growth because the CCP knows full well that preserving this duality is essential for the longterm future of the Party and the people of China. Of course issues related to political reforms will rise up again but unlike the late s then the gulf between backwardness and modernization no longer exists to any real extent similarly many dreams are being fulfilled within the current political system unlike the late s whereby many individuals still felt distant from the ongoing reforms of the day.
The final stage in the evolution of China applies to political reforms and how the CCP and civil society can move to the final transitional period whereby the ruling party can openly compete with other political parties on a level playing ground based on natural progression. Nobody knows when China will move from a oneparty state. However if economic progress continues alongside social reforms then the CCP can face this day with strength unlike the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe which collapsed based on economic political and other areas of weakness. Therefore economic growth and social reforms for the CCP are essential when the next stage takes place and this reality means that issues related to bad debt income disparity and maintaining economic growth are all equally essential.
It is therefore imperative that China maintains high economic growth restructures from investmentled to consumption based on domestic demand to reign in bad loans solve the issue of shadow banking open up important areas of the economy to outside competition and focus on other important issues related to social policy. After all the gap between rich and poor along with the rights of workers must take priority. If not the CCP will lose its power mechanisms and leverages within the grassroots of China when the final stage takes place in relation to political reforms.
Deng Xiaoping laid the foundation stone for modern day China to develop in the area of economics. Yet now all the negative areas must be reigned in and this applies to corruption enormous economic disparity rampant capitalism based on the exploitation of labor propping up inefficient areas by enabling easy loans and providing genuine rights for the workers of China. These areas and other important areas within modern day China will decide the future of this nation.
Of course for Deng Xiaoping economic growth and modernization would ultimately lead to resocialization. Either way the final stage based on political reforms and open democracy whereby the CCP can compete based on strength will be determined by tackling these negative areas within China. The Communist Parties in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe collapsed because of major weaknesses. However Deng Xiaoping was focused on strengthening the state based on economic progress and modernization given the mass unemployment of many nations throughout the European Union and many ills that beset America then clearly no model is perfect. Therefore it is essential that the CCP becomes focused on resolving internal negative forces in order to gain from positive areas in relation to economic growth and modernization.
If this happens then the world order of the late s and early s when communist states were collapsing may be turned on its head After all China isnt reliant on America for economic support. On the contrary China keeps on holding more of Americas debt and sucking in many multinationals based on the enormous size of the economy and the huge potential of this nation. In other words a new shaker in the world may unfold in the future based on a political movement that appeared to have bitten the dust but being based on the changing times of modernity albeit with the legacy of Deng Xiaoping being the precursor.
Accra June GNA Ghana is putting in measures and reforms to ensure the safety and wellbeing of children especially those in the alternative care system adoption and foster care in line with the provisions of The Hague Convention.
Nana Oye Lithur the Minister of Gender Children and Social Protection announced this at a meeting with representatives of NonGovernmental Organisations and agencies in child care services to discuss the reforms.The reforms she said addressed the gaps in the existing system and laws on adoption and foster care including the Childrens Act Act had structures and guidelines for both incountry and intercountry adoptions.She said the reforms were the result of the recommendations made by a Technical Working Group instituted by the Ministry with support from the United Nations Childrens Fund UNICEF in to assess the alternative care system in Ghana.She noted that prior to the institution of the Working Group there had been concerns on the intercountry adoptions with Ghana being ranked among the top countries with the highest rates of intercountry adoptions.This prompted the Government she said to commission an audit between and .It found among other things that per cent of the Homes sampled were unlicensed and unknown to the State while the number of orphanages had increased by per cent between and .Based on the recommendation of the Group Ghana has gone through the processes to accede to The Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption.Nana Oye said Ghana placed the Instrument of accession to the Convention at The Hague in April and it was awaiting a response.On completion she said the provisions of the Convention would be binding on Ghana.She said the national frameworks were also being reformed to make them compliant with the provisions of The Hague Convention as well as other international frameworks such as the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.She explained that The Childrens Act Amendment Bill which was before Parliament made provisions for the centralisation of adoptions to ensure the proper coordination restriction of adoptions to the high courts which were not specified in the old law.Besides she said the Bill had clear definitions of the roles of competent authorities in the placement of children for alternative care children who qualified for foster care and adoption and the offences and punishments against those who violated the care processes.The amendments she stated would formalise the establishment of a central adoption authority within the Department of Social Development which would enable the Government to better comply with its international obligations on childrens rights among other benefits.We are also working on the passage of Foster Care and Adoption Regulations that will enable government to lift the moratorium on the adoption and allow for the adoption processing procedures to fit within the framework of the Hague convention she stated.Mr. Edmund Amarkwei Foley of the GIMPA Law School took the participants through the challenges and gaps in the existing laws that necessitated the reforms as well as the provisions of the Amendment Bill.He explained that in deciding to place any child in foster care or up for adoption the best interest of the child must always be paramount and the new provisions ensured this including provisions for children above years to give their written consent for adoption.Madam Emilia Akotia the Head of the Central Adoption Authority said among other interventions a Foster Care Fund would be established to help support individual foster care givers.The fund would be managed by the Foster Care Services Unit of the Department of Social Development.Mrs Jane Irina Adu the Head of the Potters Village Ghana which operates a shelter for abused women and abandoned children said the reforms especially foster care were good and would help relieve some of the orphanages and home of some stress of taking in and providing for many children.If the children are given to foster parents who will carry the responsibilities of the children in love taking them as their own children and not discriminating against them or using them as slaves or servants then its a perfect thing she stated.She however stressed the need to conscientise the public on the need to foster other children considering that it was in the interest of the nation as a whole.
Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths.
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programmes are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife.
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernise the legal and education systems.
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants.
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens.
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals.
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan.
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education.
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centres to make them easier to set up.
An area where the contradictions between modernisation and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported.
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving.
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter.
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s.
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s.
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabiawhere change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual.
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist.
Established in January PubAffairs is the premier network and leading resource for the public affairs government relations policy and communications industry.
The PubAffairs network numbers over members and is free to join. PubAffairs operates a general eNewsletter as well as a number of other specific group eNewsletters which are also available to join by completing our registration form. 
The PubAffairs eNewsletters are used to keep members informed about upcoming PubAffairs events and networking opportunities job vacancies public affairs news training courses stakeholder events publications discount offers and other pieces of useful information related to the public affairs and communications industry.
Find out more about us and the public affairs industry featuring our th UK networking event from June .
Join us on Wednesday th July for the PubAffairs EU Networking Event. PubAffairs EU is the network for UK and European.
The Enterprise Forum in partnership with Airport Operators Association will host a roundtable discussion with David Ga.
We are looking for a Policy Adviser that is searching for varied challenging and engaging work across diverse issues faci.
Westminster Advisers is looking for a new Account Executive to support its continuing success.
While the UK digests its vote to leave the EU attention is shifting to the results implications for specific parts of the.
Westminster Advisers is looking for a new Account Executive to support its continuing success.
Westminster Advisers is looking for a new Account Executive to support its continuing success.
This is a fulltime role paid at the UK National MinimumLiving Wage currently . per hour for year olds and.
This week saw the Government outline its legislative agenda for the forthcoming parliamentary year in a Queens Speech that many had assumed would be light on ambition. Amongst the measures announced were a Digital Economy Bill to ensure that every home has the right to a fast broadband connection a Modern Transport Bill to encourage investment in driverless cars and a Neighbourhood Planning and Infrastructure Bill designed to make it easier to get planning permission for new housing developments.
Although the Queens Speech included some populist steps such as an NHS Overseas Visitors Charging Bill that will require migrants to pay when obtaining healthcare to which they are not entitled it also contained some far sighted proposals aimed at social reform and changes to public service delivery. The Prison and Courts Reform Bill will put a new emphasis on training rehabilitation and education a big shift away from the prison works ethos of the Prime Ministers political mentor. The Higher Education Bill will remove barriers for new universities to be set up and allow existing education providers to get university status. The Government also reaffirmed its commitment to make every school an academy but wary of alienating the teaching sector further stepped back from the threat of compulsion.
Running throughout the Queens Speech was the theme of improving life chances. Plans to speed up the adoption process and a Help to Save scheme for those on low incomes served as implicit reminders that George Osborne intends to use the first Tory majority in years to reshape perceptions about the Conservatives view the most vulnerable in society.
The Queens Speech was broadly well received with The Independent praising the prison reforms as long overdue. However it received a muted response from some Conservative MPs owing to an apparent volteface over the proposed Sovereignty Bill. Former Work Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith accused the Prime Minister of ditching manifesto pledges to curry favour with those in favour of remaining in the European Union.
Discontent simmered further on Thursday when the Prime Minister became the first premier in history to be forced to accept an amendment to the Queens Speech after Tory rebels sided with Labour to demand guarantees that the NHS would be exempt from the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership.Given that the alliance included Conservative MPs such as Liam Fox who are known for their free market and Atlanticist views the forced compromise was seen more as a salvo in the EU referendum battle rather than a serious expression of concern about the minutiae of TTIP.
The EU referendum campaign descended further into acrimony following Boris Johnsons invocation of Hitler as the original advocate of modern European integration. Lord Heseltine Boriss predecessor as MP for Henley denounced his comments as obscene and preposterous leading Jacob ReesMogg to brand the former Deputy Prime Minister a frightful old humbug.
While The Daily Telegraph suggested that the Prime Minister would seek to heal the rift in the Conservative Party with a postreferendum unity reshuffle The Times instead indicated that Cabinet Brexiteers such as John Whittingdale and Theresa Villiers could face the axe. All this led to a plea from Wycombe MP Steve Baker for an end to personal nastiness and a warning that disagreement over the EU was in danger of turning into deep division.
Meanwhile an ORB survey suggested that Remain had started to pull ahead in the opinion polls with of voters indicating that they wished to remain in the EU a increase on the previous month. A MORI poll predicted an even bigger lead for Remain of but this was couched with a warning that turnout would be key. A survey by the NUS suggested that more than half of students a demographic widely seen as being strongly in favour of EU membership were not even aware of the referendum date.
The situation for Imas and million Indonesians living on between a day is likely to be made worse by a percent fuel subsidy cut announced last week by new President Joko Widodo. 
Fuel subsidies which largely benefit Indonesias middle and upper classes will cost the country about bn this year and the government must redirect the funds into muchneeded ports roads and power plants.
You currently have . million children who are schoolage who are outside of the school system so just in terms of putting the schools there . thats a massive investment.
Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable unlimited and global license for no consideration to use reuse delete or publish comments in accordance with Community Rules GuidelinesandTerms and Conditions.
She was Pakistans first female maxillofacial surgeon. After decades of substance abuse is she on the road to recovery
Graffiti artist has drawn attention to the skeletal remains of the hotel an accidental monument in central Beirut.
Undocumented and marginalised the children of migrants face arrest detention and possible death in Malaysias Sabah.
Joko Widodo says planned fuel subsidy cuts aim to redirect investment in infrastructure and improve economy.
On the island of Sumbawa children aged five to nine years old race horses and often have the scars to show for it.
Britains former foreign secretary discusses the official UK investigation into the invasion of Iraq.
A look at the different reasons leading to a lack of coverage on a major human rights issue.
We speak to Londons mayor and ask fmr Brazilian President Fernando Cardoso why he supports impeaching Dilma Rousseff.
JEDDAH Saudi Arabia Reuters Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife. 
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems. 
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants. 
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens. 
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals. 
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan. 
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education. 
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up. 
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported. 
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving. 
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter. 
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s. 
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s. 
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual. 
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist. 
Deutsche Bank rebounds after Brexit crash Dow Chemical to cut jobs Twilio hits new highs
The next Dodge Challenger will ride on an Alfaderived platform and it will feature a more powerful More A sharper and more powerful Dodge Challenger Hellcat could be on its way
Beepi the online usedcar marketplace now delivers nationwide and leases cars too. Previously Beepi More Beepi usedcar marketplace adds leasing and almost nationwide delivery
Volkswagen AG VLKAY delivered vehicles in Jun down . from units delivered in More Volkswagens VLKAY Sales Plunge . YY in June
Tata Motors TTM reported an increase in total sales of its commercial and passenger vehicles including More Tata Motors TTM Total Sales Increase YY in June
Toyota Motor Corps .T Thai unit has launched a voluntary redundancy program aimed at cutting around More Toyota plans to cut jobs in Thailand
Aston Martin and Red Bull Racing said they would build a supercar like no other and the results dont More Aston Martin and Red Bull teamed up for a radical supercar unlike any other
The Tesla Model X has doors that swing up for ease of exit in close quarters but youre supposed More Ouch Dont leave the garage with your Tesla Falcon Wing doors open
U.S. lightvehicle sales improved . year over year to . million units in the first half of More U.S. Auto Sales Hit Record in H SAAR Falls in June
A new law in Japan allows automakers to replace mirrors with cameras. Several components manufacturers More Will a new law in Japan kick off the end of car mirrors
Some may say its too late or about time but the Tesla Autopilot . due to be deployed in the More Highly anticipated Tesla Autopilot . release to roll out in July
Tesla says it is now producing cars at the rate of around per week and hopes to bump that up to More Tesla secondquarter deliveries fell short of target despite production jump
Tesla Motors Inc. TSLA delivered Model S and Model X vehicles in the second quarter of More Tesla Misses Q Delivery Target Focuses on Raising Output
Tesla Autopilot is under investigation by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration NHTSA More NHTSA investigates Tesla after fatal crash while vehicle was in autonomous mode
The fatal crash of a Tesla Motors Inc Model S in Autopilot mode has turned up pressure on auto industry More Tesla crash raises concerns about autonomous vehicle regulation
Toyota has done some cool body work to its GT to create an Initial D concept. The Initial D manga and More Toyota pays tribute to Trueno with Initial D GT concept
By Alexandria Sage and David Ingram SAN FRANCISCONEW YORK Reuters Tesla officially touts its partial More Tesla mixes warnings and bravado about handsfree driving
A sleeping driver and a terrified granny are among the many people who appear in popular YouTube videos More Sleeping driver terrified granny among Tesla Autopilot users on YouTube
BMW which recently said it would have a completely autonomous car by is holding a joint news conference More Updated Is BMW teaming up with Intel Mobileye to develop autonomous vehicles
On Thursday NHTSA announced plans to investigate the May fatality of a Florida man behind the wheel More Does Tesla have blood on its hands The complex morality of autonomy
Short naps can help improve your brain function but you have to make sure youre napping correctly. More Why you should be napping at work
The singer behind the catchy song Happy has plenty to smile about after selling his squarefoot More Pharrell Williams sells Miami penthouse for . million
The ubiquity of public WiFi makes it easy for smartphone users to lighten their data usage get some More This is why you should be cautious using public WiFi
Businesses are taking efforts to combat what they argue are often unfair or petty. Even some of Canadas More Even Peggys Cove Lake Louise get slammed in online reviews
According to new research YOLO is not just aspirational but might represent a real drive among youth More Desire to work hard play hard may serve evolutionary purpose
The restaurant industry has stepped up its campaign against a minimum wage in Alberta citing public More Pressure rises to delay minimum wage in Alberta
Alice Walton has decided to hit the old dusty trail and move on from her acre Rocking W Ranch. More Walmart heiress selling massive Texas ranch for . million
For the savvy investor the worldwide financial shakeup could actually be a good opportunity to buy when More How savvy investors can benefit from the Brexit vote
Tesla reported on Sunday that it delivered cars in the second quarter of short of. More Tesla has once again missed its delivery target
Its been a week since Britains vote to leave the European Union but still theres no clear understanding More The winners and losers of Brexit
At peak times more than travellers go through the security checkpoints at Vancouver International More things you wouldnt believe people tried to get through airport security
Kellogg Co is offering a grrrreat new spot for cereallovers with the opening of its first cereal cafe More Kelloggs cereal cafe to snap crackle and pop into Times Square
Canadian mining company Lucara is putting up its uncut carat diamond called the Lesedi La Rona More Diamond expected to fetch at least USM at London auction
A roughly yearold cuneiform stone tablet in possession of the British Museum in London shows More yearold tablet shows Mesopotamian workers paid in beer
Real estate firm Cushman Wakefield has ranked neighbourhoods in North America based on factors More The coolest neighbourhoods in Canada
The annual event includes tech and entertainment industry moguls with previous attendees including Apple More Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer Left Out of Allen Co.s Summer Camp for Billionaires
The U.K.s wealthiest residents are poorer following last months Brexit vote and will likely face further More Ouch How Brexit may hit UK millionaires and billionaires
Sophie Turner can transform into anyone. I mean shes so crazy talented that even her characters can More Sophie Turner is SO highfashion in her latest Instagram
Whether as the head coach at Mississippi State or an assistant at Texas AM Rick Stansbury has shown More Fivestar center picks Western Kentucky over higherprofile schools
Three quarters of the rooms will be transformed into upscale condominiums. More The WaldorfAstoria Will Close for a Billion Renovation
A new airline just joined the group. More These Are the Worlds Only FiveStar Airlines
With a flying time of about hours the plane can reachvirtuallyany destination on Earth Kestrel More This million Boeing private jet is a flying luxury home
With million you can invest in your perfect property in whichever Canadian province your heart desires. More What a million home looks like in Canada this week
The ongoing love affair known as athleisure continues with Nike which has tapped Kim Jones of LV for More Nikes Really Feeling This Whole HighFashion Thing Right Now
Reuters Ralph Lauren Corp has appointed former Coach Inc executive Jane Nielsen as chief financial More Ralph Lauren hires CFO from rival luxury retailer Coach Inc
Hugh Hefners Playboy Mansion is about to acquire a new owner the wealthy businessman who lives next More Wealthy nextdoorneighbour is buying Playboy Mansion
Gwen Stefanis new albumThis Is What the Truth Feels Like hasnt yet yielded a successful single More Gwen Stefanis Misery Video Employs High Fashion and Harrowed Glances
A dress with snacks at its disposal Better than the original. More PlusSize Model Recreates HighFashion Gown with Bags of Shrimp Chips Slays
For million buy yourself a stunning home on Keats Island in British Columbia or in the heart of More What a million dollar home looks like in Canada this week
Its probably pretty obvious that were obsessed with whats happening on the red carpet at Cannes this More Kendall Jenner looks like shes cosplaying as a high fashion Disney villain at Cannes
The last years have been a great time to get rich in India. Indias population of high net worth individuals More Since Indias superrich population has grown by nearly 
Taylor Rosenthal cant even legally drive but already has a plan to change the way people get firstaid More This year old turned down a M offer for startup
Alibaba Group Holding Ltds online shopping platform Taobao is tightening controls on the sales of luxury More Alibabas Taobao steps up measures to fight fake luxury goods
Quotes are realtime for NASDAQ NYSE and NYSEAmex when available. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo Finance partner page. Quotes are updated automatically but will be turned off after minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least minutes. All information provided as is for informational purposes only not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors incompleteness or delays or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo site you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems Inc. CSI. International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Morningstar Inc.
New Census data shows that from to median household incomes dropped for every age group except people and older for whom it actually grew . percent since the period before the recession. But a Census Bureau official also tells U.S. News that data suggest that household income may be on the rise due to seniors doubling upcombining households with other family members or individualsnot to mention the many older Americans who have been forced to delay retirement and are still working.
Republican presidential candidates have begun touching the socalled third rail of America politics none more forcefully than Texas Gov. Rick Perry who has branded it a Ponzi scheme. However candidates assertions that the system needs to change outnumber concrete ideas about reforming the system. This is understandable as every potential solution seems to carry with it a heavy economic or political price tag. Below are a few of the more common ways to reform Social Security and the risks political and economic they bring.
Currently Social Securitys cost of living adjustment is determined by using the traditional Consumer Price Index. The chained CPI however attempts to reflect how consumers change their spending habits in response to price changesbuying chicken when the price of steak goes up for example. While this will mean smaller benefits it could particularly hurt older beneficiaries.
The very fact that it raises money shows that less money is going to people says Monique Morrissey an economist at the liberal Economic Policy Institute. The oldest old tend to be the poorer population in Social Security.
Proponents of this solution point out that life expectancies have grown meaning that beneficiaries receive benefits for longer and thus can and should also work longer. Raising the eligibility age for full benefits is a solution that makes logical sense but could mean hardship for some. Some people have easy jobs that they really love and some people have jobs that they dont want to do at years old like assembly line work says David Shulman senior economist at UCLAs Anderson Forecast. Morrissey points out that raising the retirement age thus means a benefit cut for many as workers are first eligible for benefitsalbeit reducedat . Raising the normal retirement age doesnt directly in any way affect when people retire it just reduces how much they get at any given age she says.
This is one of the only concrete ideas that any candidate put forward during the Republican Tea Party presidential debate this week in which Herman Cain and Newt Gingrich both advocated optional personal accounts. Morrissey believes that this option however is not viable. In general the private account thing has been pretty much discredited she says pointing to President George W. Bushs unsuccessful attempt to partially privatize Social Security. The logistics of changing over to such a system are also problematic to say the least. If people were allowed to invest that money themselves privately they could get a higher rate of return. Thats true of course says Viard. The flaw of course is what happens to people who are retired now he says. As current workers payments into the system go to current retirees a shift to privatization could hurt those beneficiaries. Recent sharp losses in the stock market have also cut into the popularity of such an approach.
Social Security presidential election Rick Perry Newt Gingrich economy 
Social Security is never far from the Congressional budget ax. Although its been spared actual cuts to date program defenders have already lost their battle to keep it from being considered for cuts. The battleground thus will be moving to specific reform proposals. Depending on whos talking Social Security is either a runaway fiscal disaster that needs to be overhauled or a healthy program that has done its job and needs only a tweak or two. With the spin doctors in high gear here are factual answers to key statements about the program.
First a little background. Social Security is funded by payroll taxes paid equally by employees and employers. Since each has paid . percent of covered wages up to a ceiling which is currently the first in annual earnings. This tax supports the OldAge Survivors and Disability Insurance OASDI program which has two partsOldAge and Survivors Insurance OASI and Disability Insurance DIpaying monthly benefits to retirees and their families and to disabled workers and their families.
There is also a payroll tax for Medicare that is . percent each for employees and employers there is no earnings ceiling for Medicare taxes. The total tax for both programs for most taxpayers is thus . percent. Selfemployed wage earners must pay this entire amount. The health reform law has tacked on higher Medicare taxes for wealthier taxpayers. They will rise another . percent on wage incomes above in for couples. These same income limits are also being used to trigger a . percent annual tax on net investment income. Heres the history of Social Security taxes.
The last time Social Security was reformed in the early s payroll taxes were raised to make the program selfsupporting and big surpluses began to accrue. By law Social Security must place its surpluses in a special issue of U.S. Treasury securities and the interest on these securities is added to Social Security revenues. The program is also credited with some of the tax revenues that the IRS receives from income taxes on Social Security benefit payments.
Social Security is spending more money in benefits than its taking in. Its broke. Social Security is not broke regardless of how you define the term. Program expenses do exceed the amount of payroll taxes taken in by the program. However the program is still in the black if you include its interest and other income.
We cant afford Social Security. Affordability ultimately comes down to whether you think current payroll tax rates are too steep benefits are too big or some combination of the two. There has been nearly no discussion that payroll tax rates should come down so the affordability question hinges on benefits. There has been some talk of trimming future benefits for higherincome wage earners and perhaps trimming the annual cost of living adjustment COLA. Studies show that lowerincome workers wind up receiving more from Social Security than they paid in taxes while the opposite is true for higherincome wage earners.
Social Security is adding to the deficit. The deficit was a contentious Social Security topic even before Al Gores infamous lock box statements during the presidential race. Narrowly speaking Social Security is distinct from the rest of the federal budget and its defenders say it can neither add to nor reduce the federal deficit. It has its own dedicated tax and relies solely on that tax and the income it earns from investing surplus tax collections.
During and the employee payroll tax was reduced from . to . percent. But this economic stimulus was intended to put more money in consumers hands. The Social Security program happened to be an effective way to accomplish this goal. Social Security was made whole for the cuts and its overall financial position was not affected. Did this stimulus add to the deficit Yes but thats not the same thing as saying Social Security did so.
This issue becomes murkier however because of the legal requirement that Social Security place its excess money into U.S. Treasury securities. Its not as if the feds are holding the programs . trillion surplus in well a lock box. They spent that money a long time ago to fund government operations and gave Social Security an I.O.U. just as they do to everyone else who owns U.S. Treasury debt. Under this view when Social Security must begin cashing in its U.S. Securities to fund its operating deficits Uncle Sam will have to go out and find the real dollars to repay Social Security. How will it find those dollars Of course it will need to sell more U.S. Treasury securities adding to the national debt and to the deficit. In this indirect way at least Social Securitys looming shortfalls would add to the deficit. The villain in this story if there is one would seem not to be the Social Security program itself but overall government fiscal policy.
Proposed changes to Social Security will hurt current retirees. Generally major reform proposals issued so far would have little effect on people and older and would not change benefits for retirees for upwards of years. This primarily involves raising the retirement age and any specific proposals that would affect benefits. An exception could be if the annual cost of living adjustment COLA were made less attractive. That might take effect sooner although opening up the COLA for discussion will also bring out lots of proposals to increase it particularly to reflect sustained inflation in healthcare costs. Another likely reform measure would raise the annual ceiling on taxable earnings but this would affect workers not retirees. There will also be proposals to meanstest Social Security benefits which could affect payments to more affluent retirees. The key there will be the effective date of any changes.
Were all living longer so raising the retirement age is a logical and easy fix. Yes and no. Wealthier people are certainly living longer. People in whitecollar jobs may be living longer. Poorer people are not living longer. The longevity revolution has not worked its magic on them. Many lowerincome Americans take early retirement at because they are worn out by physically demanding jobs. Suggesting these people work until theyre is not realistic. Extending the full retirement age now at and headed to for people born after thus may have its greatest impact on these early retirees. Most proposals that raise the retirement age can only pay for themselves by reducing the relative level of benefits for early retirees. Social Security has analyzed the major reform proposals and assessed their impact on the programs longterm sustainability.
Vacuum cleaner retailer Godfreys has turned to John Hardy the star of its s TV commercials to lead the way
Quotes are realtime for NASDAQ NYSE and NYSEAmex when available. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo Finance partner page. Quotes are updated automatically but will be turned off after minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least minutes. All information provided as is for informational purposes only not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors incompleteness or delays or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo site you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems Inc. CSI. International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Morningstar Inc.
Social Security is never far from the Congressional budget ax. Although its been spared actual cuts to date program defenders have already lost their battle to keep it from being considered for cuts. The battleground thus will be moving to specific reform proposals. Depending on whos talking Social Security is either a runaway fiscal disaster that needs to be overhauled or a healthy program that has done its job and needs only a tweak or two. With the spin doctors in high gear here are factual answers to key statements about the program.
First a little background. Social Security is funded by payroll taxes paid equally by employees and employers. Since each has paid . percent of covered wages up to a ceiling which is currently the first in annual earnings. This tax supports the OldAge Survivors and Disability Insurance OASDI program which has two partsOldAge and Survivors Insurance OASI and Disability Insurance DIpaying monthly benefits to retirees and their families and to disabled workers and their families.
There is also a payroll tax for Medicare that is . percent each for employees and employers there is no earnings ceiling for Medicare taxes. The total tax for both programs for most taxpayers is thus . percent. Selfemployed wage earners must pay this entire amount. The health reform law has tacked on higher Medicare taxes for wealthier taxpayers. They will rise another . percent on wage incomes above in for couples. These same income limits are also being used to trigger a . percent annual tax on net investment income. Heres the history of Social Security taxes.
The last time Social Security was reformed in the early s payroll taxes were raised to make the program selfsupporting and big surpluses began to accrue. By law Social Security must place its surpluses in a special issue of U.S. Treasury securities and the interest on these securities is added to Social Security revenues. The program is also credited with some of the tax revenues that the IRS receives from income taxes on Social Security benefit payments.
Social Security is spending more money in benefits than its taking in. Its broke. Social Security is not broke regardless of how you define the term. Program expenses do exceed the amount of payroll taxes taken in by the program. However the program is still in the black if you include its interest and other income.
We cant afford Social Security. Affordability ultimately comes down to whether you think current payroll tax rates are too steep benefits are too big or some combination of the two. There has been nearly no discussion that payroll tax rates should come down so the affordability question hinges on benefits. There has been some talk of trimming future benefits for higherincome wage earners and perhaps trimming the annual cost of living adjustment COLA. Studies show that lowerincome workers wind up receiving more from Social Security than they paid in taxes while the opposite is true for higherincome wage earners.
Social Security is adding to the deficit. The deficit was a contentious Social Security topic even before Al Gores infamous lock box statements during the presidential race. Narrowly speaking Social Security is distinct from the rest of the federal budget and its defenders say it can neither add to nor reduce the federal deficit. It has its own dedicated tax and relies solely on that tax and the income it earns from investing surplus tax collections.
During and the employee payroll tax was reduced from . to . percent. But this economic stimulus was intended to put more money in consumers hands. The Social Security program happened to be an effective way to accomplish this goal. Social Security was made whole for the cuts and its overall financial position was not affected. Did this stimulus add to the deficit Yes but thats not the same thing as saying Social Security did so.
This issue becomes murkier however because of the legal requirement that Social Security place its excess money into U.S. Treasury securities. Its not as if the feds are holding the programs . trillion surplus in well a lock box. They spent that money a long time ago to fund government operations and gave Social Security an I.O.U. just as they do to everyone else who owns U.S. Treasury debt. Under this view when Social Security must begin cashing in its U.S. Securities to fund its operating deficits Uncle Sam will have to go out and find the real dollars to repay Social Security. How will it find those dollars Of course it will need to sell more U.S. Treasury securities adding to the national debt and to the deficit. In this indirect way at least Social Securitys looming shortfalls would add to the deficit. The villain in this story if there is one would seem not to be the Social Security program itself but overall government fiscal policy.
Proposed changes to Social Security will hurt current retirees. Generally major reform proposals issued so far would have little effect on people and older and would not change benefits for retirees for upwards of years. This primarily involves raising the retirement age and any specific proposals that would affect benefits. An exception could be if the annual cost of living adjustment COLA were made less attractive. That might take effect sooner although opening up the COLA for discussion will also bring out lots of proposals to increase it particularly to reflect sustained inflation in healthcare costs. Another likely reform measure would raise the annual ceiling on taxable earnings but this would affect workers not retirees. There will also be proposals to meanstest Social Security benefits which could affect payments to more affluent retirees. The key there will be the effective date of any changes.
Were all living longer so raising the retirement age is a logical and easy fix. Yes and no. Wealthier people are certainly living longer. People in whitecollar jobs may be living longer. Poorer people are not living longer. The longevity revolution has not worked its magic on them. Many lowerincome Americans take early retirement at because they are worn out by physically demanding jobs. Suggesting these people work until theyre is not realistic. Extending the full retirement age now at and headed to for people born after thus may have its greatest impact on these early retirees. Most proposals that raise the retirement age can only pay for themselves by reducing the relative level of benefits for early retirees. Social Security has analyzed the major reform proposals and assessed their impact on the programs longterm sustainability.
Vacuum cleaner retailer Godfreys has turned to John Hardy the star of its s TV commercials to lead the way
Quotes are realtime for NASDAQ NYSE and NYSEAmex when available. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo Finance partner page. Quotes are updated automatically but will be turned off after minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least minutes. All information provided as is for informational purposes only not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors incompleteness or delays or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo site you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems Inc. CSI. International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Morningstar Inc.
in prison throughout his life mainly for charges related to theft and
getting into trouble with the law at age . He repeatedly ran away from home
himself to protect others and he was seeking a sense of belonging a place to escape from a troubled childhood. But he didnt know at the time how to handle
exoffenders establish healthier and more productive lives through the Racine Vocational Ministry where he is the reentry program director. The ministry offers a secondchance program for reentrants those establishing themselves
through it all foster care rehab solitary confinement mental institutions and I changed. People can change and not every criminal is bad. Our criminal justice system needs to change so we can give those who deserve it a chance.
broken including President Barack Obama who in July called on Congress to take up criminal justice reform. A bipartisan group on Capitol Hill was putting the final touches on a sentencing overhaul deal during the same month. 
lower crime rate is a starting point to reform the criminal justice system.
first time in years the crime rate and the incarceration rate have come down together and use that as a starting point for Democrats and Republicans community leaders and law enforcement to reform Americas criminal justice
points out that there are a lot of different issues within the U.S. criminal justice system. Those at the forefront are racial profiling and arrests mandatory minimum jail sentencing for nonviolent crimes and the lack of options for reentrants to get the help they need with jobs housing and social services after jail thus increasing chances for a repeat arrest.
in the criminal justice system is on the White Houses agenda and Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill have a high commitment to getting laws passed
criminal justice reform and the bills are expected to pass this month he
Reform and Corrections Act of which was introduced in October and focuses on fair sentencing. The Mental Health and Safe Communities Act was introduced during the summer and looks at assessing those with mental health issues particularly in the issuance of firearms to determine if they are a threat to themselves and others. The legislation also focuses on strengthening federal mental health programs within the criminal justice system.
said adding that any reforms could directly impact social work.
concerns for social justice Wilson said. Anything within this reform that shifts the emphasis to treatment and services directly impacts social work because were a major part of the workforce that provides these services.
says Rudy Morton Gourdine professor of social work at Howard University in Washington D.C. Gourdine presented at a symposium on social justice and leadership at the NASW Courage Hope and Leadership conference last year.
AfricanAmericans constitute nearly million of the . million people incarcerated in the U.S. about six times the rate of whites. And in Hispanics and AfricanAmericans comprised percent of all prisoners in the U.S. even though they make up approximately one quarter of the U.S. population. naacp.orgpagescriminaljusticefactsheet.
overrepresentation she said. What is often quoted is an AfricanAmerican would go to jail for using crack and white Americans using cocaine wont be given the same time. People have been arguing for years that this is one of the reasons it has led to overrepresentation of AfricanAmericans in the criminal
as many whites in the U.S. using drugs as AfricanAmericans but AfricanAmericans tend to spend more time behind bars no matter what the crime
Barbour Floyd Medical Associates in Los Angeles. She said according to the Federal Bureau of Prisons as of July . percent of the inmate population in the U.S. is incarcerated on drug offenses which she adds could
life and says the criminal justice system has a bad side and from a
policeinvolved shootings brutality prison privatization and the unusual large number of arrestedincarcerated people of color she said. The good side is I had an epiphany when I was in court. I realized that if I kept doing what I was doing I would spend the rest of my life in prison.
just made bad choices and should be given another chance to do things differently. Rangel like Wyatt said he was making terrible choices in life. 
marijuana but the punishment outweighs what the crime actually is and it
reform doesnt mean giving a free pass to those who break the law. But it does mean acting with fairness toward someone who does commit a crime without prejudice and taking into consideration whether the person has mental health issues a long criminal history and any other fact that may impact behavior.
the criminal justice aspects from law enforcement to legal proceedings to
released from prison and its where a lot of people fail to make the successful transition. He says many reentrants struggle with mental health
isnt enough to get them back on their feet he says and when it runs out
excriminal or have them as a tenant Social workers have the empathy and relating skills and theyre important for helping them find their way.
people who are stigmatized and socially isolated Wyatt said. They meet people where they are without judgment and can provide personalized resources.
enhance human wellbeing and help meet the basic needs of all people with particular attention to the needs and empowerment of people who are vulnerable oppressed and living in poverty Wyatt said. Its my mantra.
social workers deal with every day such as mental health and poverty and there is a need for stronger advocacy for reform. There are currently not enough resources that adequately look at ways the reentry population can be
Garner selling loose cigarettes and social workers have to be the voice to work with police departments agencies schools and communities to help resolve the problem Gourdine said. We cant put our heads in the sand and pretend
social workers can advocate at the local state and federal levels. Especially when the criminal justice reform bills begin to surface thats the time to join coalitions and start writing to and calling state representatives he
Wilson said. And we should embrace these reforms because it should impact our
reform he says and legislation and policies moving toward those reforms do
working with the Vera Institute of Justice and the U.S. Department of Justice
filled with cruelty. A tiny piece of kindness offered to him by a supportive social worker began to change the trajectory of his life even while he was
everything Ive been through has led me to this place now and I wanted to be
introduced legislation three years ago that would prohibit sentencing of minors
and played an active role in getting it passed. The state now meets the Supreme Court decision that prohibits sentencing youth to life without parole. 
several junctures in the legislative process mobilized members through alerts and phonebanked members who had legislators that were swing votes to move the
monthly with top Department of Public Safety staff as well as quarterly with clinical staff from Central Prison Mental Health Hospital. The chapter says this time to come together and advise and discuss issues is key to helping support staff and inmates in custody. The chapter also has been successful in promoting the hiring of more social workers in the prison system particularly those in clinical positions and securing funding for mental health treatment
Box proposal in its lobby day. This bill would ban employers in Wisconsin from putting on employment applications the question as to whether an applicant
exoffenders obtaining employment the chapter said. NASWWisconsin also supports the decriminalization of marijuana. The chapters legislative and social policy committee made the decision to support the bill based upon the
Social Workers in Criminal Justice Reform will take place Dec. from noon to p.m. ET. socialworkers.orgsectionsareasnews.aspnews
which replaced state reform schools with communitybased programs eliminating abusive tactics toward incarcerated youth and creating therapeutic
the Year in . His professional roles included general receiver to the federal court in Washington D.C. federal court monitor in the Jacksonville Fla. Middle District and cofounder with Herbert Hoelter of the National
and support for creative and effective alternatives to institutionalization for people who are mentally ill or developmentally disabled adult and juvenile
copyright and credit to the NASW News must appear on all copies made. This permission does not apply to reproduction for advertising 
Protesters put up tent encampents in Israels cities in the past two months and have been holding demonstrations almost every week calling for cheaper housing and other economic reforms. They have been goaded on by the press and have received support from the New Israel Fund. Some nationalists suspect that the protest is a leftist ploy to destabilize the government. 
The development of a College of Social Work more robust standards for employers and better supervision of newly qualified social workers is raising the confidence of the profession according to the final report of the Social Work Reform Board.
The report said that despite a difficult start the College of Social Work is beginning to make progress with paying members and prospective members.
It also said there had been considerable progress in delivering an Assessed and Supported Year in Employment for newly qualified social workers which where adopted had received positive feedback.
Early reports from the programme suggest that those participating felt more confident and proactive in their approach to supervision the report said.
Members of the reform board also praised the impact of new standards for employers which they said had contributed to the drive towards sectorled improvement.
However the board acknowledged that implementing many of the reforms will be challenging in very difficult times.
As the reform board hands over its work to the government and other agencies it said that sectorled improvement will be crucial with the support of the College of Social Work and the chief social worker which the government is aiming to appoint by the end of the year.
The introduction of revisions to the social work degree in and a framework for continuing professional development expected by the end of the year will also accelerate progress according to the report.
We hope to have a chief social worker in place within the next few months who will reinforce the continuing imperative to drive up standards of care in the field of social work.
MA Education . Published by MA Education Limited St Judes Church Dulwich Road Herne Hill London SE PB a company registered in England and Wales no. . MA Education is part of the Mark Allen Group.
New analysis of government figures suggests . million people aged and over will lose out after ministers raised the proposed limit on personal care bills from to . 
Unlike the NHS bills for services such as help with washing and dressing are currently unlimited and one in adults faces fees of more than . 
Under the plans to be detailed in Parliament today noone would pay more than in care fees over their lifetimes with the state stepping in to cover costs above this level. 
However this is far more than the limit originally proposed by the governmentappointed commission led by Mr Dilnot. 
Analysis of the Dilnot Commissions data by the thinktank Demos suggested an additional pensioners a year would receive no help as a result of the higher cap. 
Based on current population figures a cap would benefit about . million over s more than a third of pensioners. 
However the cap will only benefit about . million people per cent of the age group. 
The average single person requiring care has a house worth and so will not benefit from the meanstested assistance. 
Speaking to BBC Radio s Today programme Mr Dilnot said that ministers had been forced to increase the cap because the the public finances are in a pretty tricky state. 
We said it should be between and in prices Mr Dilnot said. The cap thats being proposed is in prices thats the equivalent of in our terms. 
So it is higher than we would have wanted higher than the top end of our range and I regret that. 
But I recognise that the public finances are in a pretty tricky state and it doesnt seem to me that it is so different from what we wanted as to radically transform the basis of the system. 
He described the current system as a complete disaster and said the new measures would mean that for the first time you dont have to be terrified of the consequences of needing care. 
Mr Dilnot said that although his commission had looked at the idea of having a staterun national care service it was not plausible. 
We talk in report about the possibility of either the state taking the whole thing or the private sector taking the whole thing Mr Dilnot said. Our view on the state taking the whole things was that it wasnt plausible even if it were to be introduced at any one point. 
This is a service where everyone has to believe whatever is in place will last for years. 
The experience from around the world is that even countries that have tried to go down this route have pulled away when times got hard leaving people in the worst of all worlds thinking they were going to get it for nothing and then it not being available. 
So we judged that partnership between the state and the individual was the best way forward. 
She said it would be deeply unfair for the cap to apply to individuals regardless of whether they were married. Under the plans couples will face a double bill of up to before the state steps in. 
The National Pensioners Convention described the reforms as about as credible as a Findus lasagne. 
Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths.
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programmes are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife.
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernise the legal and education systems.
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants.
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens.
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals.
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan.
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education.
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centres to make them easier to set up.
An area where the contradictions between modernisation and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported.
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving.
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter.
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s.
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s.
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabiawhere change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual.
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist.
CEBU Philippines A nationwide affiliation of independent business clubs will hold a oneday conference in Cebu City on June to discuss several reform measures that could address the countrys socioeconomic problems and strengthen its network.
This will be the first Independent Business Clubs Conference organized by the Makati Business Club and the Cebu Business Club with the theme Facing old challenges forging new engagement.
The main segment will be an open discourse dubbed as Key challenges for progressive Philippines with special guest speakers Senator Francis Escudero Senator Mar Roxas II and Defense Secretary Gilbert Teodoro Jr.
They will provide their views on education reforming the budget process good governance and the proposed Philippine Economic Roadmap for and beyond.
This event aims to strengthen the links between the clubs the value of which can be reflected through shared information and studies joint cooperation on projects for wider implementation and as the need may arise taking a unified stand on issues they agree on MBC executive director Alberto Lim said.
We are hoping that the output of the conference will not only be to agree on a way to communicate with each other but to engage in project we can undertake together Lim added.
Lim said that it is important for business communities in all regions to be enlightened on significant issues such as education fiscal reforms and good governance especially in the light of the upcoming election.
This gathering gives us a chance to know who among the candidates carry the issue we care about Lim said. Jessica Ann R. ParejaMEEV THE FREEMAN
The development of a College of Social Work more robust standards for employers and better supervision of newly qualified social workers is raising the confidence of the profession according to the final report of the Social Work Reform Board.
The report said that despite a difficult start the College of Social Work is beginning to make progress with paying members and prospective members.
It also said there had been considerable progress in delivering an Assessed and Supported Year in Employment for newly qualified social workers which where adopted had received positive feedback.
Early reports from the programme suggest that those participating felt more confident and proactive in their approach to supervision the report said.
Members of the reform board also praised the impact of new standards for employers which they said had contributed to the drive towards sectorled improvement.
However the board acknowledged that implementing many of the reforms will be challenging in very difficult times.
As the reform board hands over its work to the government and other agencies it said that sectorled improvement will be crucial with the support of the College of Social Work and the chief social worker which the government is aiming to appoint by the end of the year.
The introduction of revisions to the social work degree in and a framework for continuing professional development expected by the end of the year will also accelerate progress according to the report.
We hope to have a chief social worker in place within the next few months who will reinforce the continuing imperative to drive up standards of care in the field of social work.
MA Education . Published by MA Education Limited St Judes Church Dulwich Road Herne Hill London SE PB a company registered in England and Wales no. . MA Education is part of the Mark Allen Group.
Presentation given by ALRC Communications Manager MarieClaire Muir to the Federation of Law Reform Agencies of Canada FOLRAC in Alberta via Skype on October .
Hello Im Marie Claire Muir Online Communications Manager at the ALRC. Thanks for having me virtually at FOLRAC. Ive been asked to provide an overview of some of the social media tools and strategies the ALRC has been using to enhance the law reform process.
Ill start with a little background about the ALRC to provide some context around our online and offline activities. The ALRC was established in . Our mission is the development reform and harmonisation of Australian laws and related processes through research analysis reports and community consultation and education. Inquiries are referred to us by the Federal AttorneyGeneral with Terms of Reference that stipulate the timeframe for completion.
We are a small agency currently with legal officers a handful of corporate staff and a President Professor Rosalind Croucher also our only permanent fulltime Commissioner. We are from time to time appointed a second fulltime Commissioner based on expertise for the duration of a particular inquiry. Currently we have Professor Jill McKeough appointed to us to lead the Copyright inquiry.
We are small but effective. In recent years we have been typically working on two inquiries at any given time each taking months. In our years we have delivered reports which enjoy an implementation rate. Our two inquiries at the moment are legal barriers to matureage persons participating in the workforce which we nickname Age Barriers and Copyright and the Digital Economy inquiry.
Our first key development in digital communications was a suite of dedicated inquiry enewsletters. Not the brave new world of social media exactly but a big step forward for the ALRC. This example from the Discovery inquiry illustrates a typical layoutwith a calendar or significant dates the month in summary and then a particular topic or question for consideration or discussion.
To complement the enews we set up a blog external to the ALRC website using the free and simpletouse Wordpress platform. This gave us a dedicated inquiry mini website great for SEO which people could go to for inquiry news and discussion and allowed us to capture responses in a format that allowed public discussion.
In the case of the Discovery inquiry we always knew that a blog on this kind of subject matter would not attract a huge amount of attention or comment. The point was largely about transparency providing access to the kind of things we were thinking and talking about as the inquiry progressed. In fact for this particular inquiry because we were keeping the relatively small group of stakeholders informed and we were highlighting all the big issues as went along we were actually able to skip the formal Issues Papers saving us time and money and providing alternative ways for stakeholders to respond and engage with the inquiry. Obviously this isnt an option for every inquiry but here it worked really well.
We trialled another kind of blog for the Family Violence Inquirythis was actually the Commissions first blog. Its launch coincided with the release of the Consultation Paper and comprised all the questions and proposals over of them. The purpose of the site was to encourage public discussion and debate of the questions and proposals.
Like the Discovery blog it was based on WordPress but with a special plugin that allowed commenting paragraph by paragraphmuch like making notes or comments in the margins of a document or book. The notes are public so there can be discussion around both the text and the comments.
So looking at Chapter we can see that within that chapter there were comments.
And looking at the first proposal in that section you can see there were comments on that one proposal.
To view them or to add a comment you simply click on the speech bubble and up they pop.
During the months or so that it was live the blog was visited about times by around people and attracted comments.
At the end of we began an online consultation pilot for which we received a small grant from the Government . Taskforce the grant paying for the services of a social media consultant. The pilot was a closed online community consisting only of invited participants representing a specific group of stakeholders spread across Australia. The context was again the Family Violence inquiry and the stakeholder group was Womens Legal Services. The community was designed to enable frank and open discussion in a secure environment between participants. The ALRC identified a number of key issues and invited participants to discuss them give their opinions and talk to the ALRC and each other about any other issues they felt were relevant.
I wont go into too much detail about this. The consultants report on the pilot is available from Gov . Taskforce websitefor anyone who is interested. But in a nutshell the software is called Elgga free open source platformand essentially it works much like a gated Facebook. You can make friends update your status write a message on someones wall and of course comment on other peoples posts which in this case were the topics relevant to the family violence inquiry that we wanted community members to discuss. Of course unlike Facebook entry to the community and access even to the basic interface is completely controlled by the community administrators.
For the Censorship and Classification inquiry the ALRC ran two online discussion forums on its own website at different stages of the inquiry.
Thanks to all who have contributed to this discussion so far. There have been many interesting comments made. However I do think the point needs to be made that there is definitely a plurality of views on the matters raised. Whether or not that is ultimately played out in the comments on this forum this plurality is evident from the range of submissions made to the ALRC. We ask contributors to ensure they do not denigrate particular individuals or organisations because of a difference of opinion. We are aiming to foster an environment where a diversity of views is encouraged. Comment by the Inquiry Commisssioner.
At any rate it was clear in hindsight that wed worried over these issues more than we really needed to. At no point were any participants uncivil to the ALRC or others and if they had been we had clear moderation protocols in place to deal with the situation and some of the arguments and criticism were actually quite instructive. In fact quotes from both the forums found their way into the Final Report. Furthermore a number of participants who were critical of the Discussion Paper or of ALRC reasoning expressed appreciation nonetheless that we had provided a space where these issues could be openly discussed.
The Classification and Copyright inquiries alongside the broad level of public interest they command also have in common large numbers of internetsavvy stakeholders comfortable aggregating their news and engaging in discussion via social media. To increase exposure of the ALRCs work in these areas a Facebook page was created for each inquiry. The Classification inquiry Facebook page had been liked by people at the close of the inquiry and the closure of the page. The Copyright Facebook page has to date likes.
I admit I dont get too excited about Facebook pages and as long as Facebook requires registration is dogged by privacy issues and offers little control in terms of moderation I would not want to be directing people there for the sake of discussion. Rather I see it as a bookmark or safety net to feed information about the inquiry to those who live there and for whom Facebook is an important source of news. Facebook pages are fairly quick to set up and require little maintenance so why not
Twitter on the other hand I can get quite excited about. In terms of disseminating ALRC news and driving traffic to the ALRC website it packs a big punch it can be used to foster communities of interest and discussion around ALRC work it allows for quick and informal engagement and it has also become one of my most valued media monitoringcurrent awareness tools.
The ALRC started tweeting around the same time we started out newsletters so late . In October we have around followers. A significant number of those followers came on board during the Classification inquiry which its worth observing attracted a record number of submissions for the ALRC. There was a lot of discussion around the inquiry under the hashtag clasrev. We even had a couple of dedicated followers reading submissions as they were posted on the website and tweeting mini summaries for the rest of the clasrev community
Apart from promoting our own blogs newsletters and general news we also tweet news and media items that are related to our inquiry work. The ALRC doesnt anticipate meaningful input to inquiries in characters occasionally we get it anyway but people do talk to us and ask questions via the Twitter feed and we do our best to respond. We even get occasional fan mail and our web stats confirm that Twitter is driving substantial traffic to our website our external blogs and to newsletter subscriptions.
In a relatively short period the ALRC has gone through a significant change as an organisation. We are now using online tools most of them its worth noting free or of minimal cost to engage educate and consult and also to improve our own internal procedures. Social media and our online engagement strategies are not only broadening ALRC reach and greatly increasing exposure to our work but also helping us meet the challenge of a diminishing budget of doing more with less. We will for the time being continue to mix and match the various tools and strategies Ive just described while keeping an eye on new social media platforms and new opportunities.
The Copyright Issues Paper in August was the first ALRC document to be published as an ebook for use on tablets Kindles smartphones and mobile devices. ALRC consultation documents and final reports are often quite lengthy and we are keen to do what we can to make it easier for people to consume them even if thats on their phone while riding the bus to work. Providing alternative electronic formats where possible also makes sense in light of the push to reduce reliance on hard copy. We hope to be able to offer more even all of our publications as ebooks down the track. However doing it manually is a very time intensive project and to speak frankly were making it up and working it out as we go Id love to hear from anyone whos also exploring the ebook option especially ideas about to improve time and cost efficiency.
Were exploring new ways of presenting submissions for public consumption. Since all public submissions are posted on the ALRC website. However these are often supplied in inaccessible formats and for anyone keen enough to want to read them all as weve discovered some stakeholders are it means a lot of downloading. The ALRC produces an online submission form each time it releases a consultation document. One of the benefits of this is it allows legal staff to collate all the responses to a particular question or questions in a Word or html format report. During the current Copyright inquiry we will trial posting these reports on the website as a service to stakeholders making it easier to find specific data and making it available in fully accessible html.
At some stage in the next year were keen to run a stakeholder surveyto get real feedback about our publications our engagement strategies accessibility andtransparency etcto form a clear idea about where we need to focus our attentions.
Finally were keen to work with other agencies where there is a natural fit in terms of shared goals andor stakeholderswhether collaborating on social media platforms for engagement sharing expertise and ideas or even pooling resources for particular projects. On that note Ill finish with an invitation to please get in touch if youre interested in any of the above
Roumi was quoted by AlRai daily on Friday as he announced that his group has no political activity and focuses only on charitable and social purposes as per its license. We support the Muslim Brotherhoods ideology which Muslim Brotherhood founder Sheikh Hassan AlBanna preached Roumi said arguing that this ideology reflects the moderate understanding of Islam that never endorses violence.
Despite his vocal support of the Muslim Brotherhood Roumi reiterated that the Social Reform Society is a Kuwaiti NGO with no legal or organizational affiliation to any movement or party in Kuwait. Our position is for reform and to denounce terrorism practiced by states groups or individuals Roumi said. Fridays reports indicated that the Kuwaiti government has not received any notice from the Egyptian government with regards to classifying the Muslim Brotherhood as a terrorist group after Egypt announced plans to contact countries signatory to the Convention for the Suppression of Terrorism. Members of the Islamic Constitutional Movement the unannounced political arm of the Muslim Brotherhood in Kuwait has already criticized the decision to list the group as a terrorist organization.
The owner of this website www.modernghana.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beafdeua.
Accra June GNA Ghana is putting in measures and reforms to ensure the safety and wellbeing of children especially those in the alternative care system adoption and foster care in line with the provisions of The Hague Convention.
Nana Oye Lithur the Minister of Gender Children and Social Protection announced this at a meeting with representatives of NonGovernmental Organisations and agencies in child care services to discuss the reforms.The reforms she said addressed the gaps in the existing system and laws on adoption and foster care including the Childrens Act Act had structures and guidelines for both incountry and intercountry adoptions.She said the reforms were the result of the recommendations made by a Technical Working Group instituted by the Ministry with support from the United Nations Childrens Fund UNICEF in to assess the alternative care system in Ghana.She noted that prior to the institution of the Working Group there had been concerns on the intercountry adoptions with Ghana being ranked among the top countries with the highest rates of intercountry adoptions.This prompted the Government she said to commission an audit between and .It found among other things that per cent of the Homes sampled were unlicensed and unknown to the State while the number of orphanages had increased by per cent between and .Based on the recommendation of the Group Ghana has gone through the processes to accede to The Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption.Nana Oye said Ghana placed the Instrument of accession to the Convention at The Hague in April and it was awaiting a response.On completion she said the provisions of the Convention would be binding on Ghana.She said the national frameworks were also being reformed to make them compliant with the provisions of The Hague Convention as well as other international frameworks such as the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.She explained that The Childrens Act Amendment Bill which was before Parliament made provisions for the centralisation of adoptions to ensure the proper coordination restriction of adoptions to the high courts which were not specified in the old law.Besides she said the Bill had clear definitions of the roles of competent authorities in the placement of children for alternative care children who qualified for foster care and adoption and the offences and punishments against those who violated the care processes.The amendments she stated would formalise the establishment of a central adoption authority within the Department of Social Development which would enable the Government to better comply with its international obligations on childrens rights among other benefits.We are also working on the passage of Foster Care and Adoption Regulations that will enable government to lift the moratorium on the adoption and allow for the adoption processing procedures to fit within the framework of the Hague convention she stated.Mr. Edmund Amarkwei Foley of the GIMPA Law School took the participants through the challenges and gaps in the existing laws that necessitated the reforms as well as the provisions of the Amendment Bill.He explained that in deciding to place any child in foster care or up for adoption the best interest of the child must always be paramount and the new provisions ensured this including provisions for children above years to give their written consent for adoption.Madam Emilia Akotia the Head of the Central Adoption Authority said among other interventions a Foster Care Fund would be established to help support individual foster care givers.The fund would be managed by the Foster Care Services Unit of the Department of Social Development.Mrs Jane Irina Adu the Head of the Potters Village Ghana which operates a shelter for abused women and abandoned children said the reforms especially foster care were good and would help relieve some of the orphanages and home of some stress of taking in and providing for many children.If the children are given to foster parents who will carry the responsibilities of the children in love taking them as their own children and not discriminating against them or using them as slaves or servants then its a perfect thing she stated.She however stressed the need to conscientise the public on the need to foster other children considering that it was in the interest of the nation as a whole.
Clinton campaign slams hateful Max Blumenthal comments on the late Elie Wiesel
Jared Kushner employee blasts him for ignoring antiSemitic imagery in Trump campaign

Is a Jewish safe haven possible in the Diaspora is America the exception
RIYADH Saudi Arabias King Abdullah has sacked a senior cleric after he decried cautious reforms in the worlds top oil exporter that allowed women to mix with unmarried men Saudi Gazette reported on Saturday.The decision to relieve Sheikh Abdulmohsen alObeikan of his position as royal adviser was made in a decree issued on the recommendation of Crown Prince Nayef himself a reputed conservative.The move fits a pattern of recent years in which senior clerics who oppose the governments cautious social reforms too openly have lost their jobs.
Copyright Jpost Inc. All rights reserved Terms of Use Privacy Policy
LONDON A senior British lawmaker says Prime Minister David Cameron will use the fallout from Englands riots to push through social reforms. 
Iain Duncan Smith who is in charge of welfare and employment policy as Work and Pensions Secretary said that four nights of looting and violence last week had served as a warning to the government. 
In an interview with weekly The Spectator magazine released Thursday Smith said the unrest across London and other major English cities would prove a pivotal moment in Camerons leadership. 
Cameron who took office in May has made it clear that this now is his big focus Duncan Smith was quoted as saying. 
Home Secretary Theresa May and Duncan Smith will report to Parliament in October will new plans to tackle gangrelated violence in Britain. 
Britains Prime Minister David Cameron speaks at a youth center in Witney his Parliamentary district in southern England Monday Aug. . AP Alastair Grant
The chairman of the Gillard Governments social policy caucus committee Shayne Neumann has told The Australian that reforms to aged care mental health and disability are to be delivered during Labors second term on the basis that the sectors are unsustainable.
Mr Neumann says he will meet regularly with Prime Minister Julia Gillard to push ideas developed by his group said a major social reform agenda was needed in the three key areas.
He said the government must completely overhaul aged care and mental health and look at a disability insurance scheme as its second term agenda reformist priorities. 
He said aged care had fundamental problems this Government must finally fix and conceded more work had to be done in mental health. 
I think we can do a lot more in mental health. For a long time we have managed aged care. we have to look to reforming it and I think theres a lot of things we can do.
Mr Neumann said the idea for a disability insurance scheme was something the Government would look at exploring.
The nurses federation has undertaken some really strong campaigns to increase wage entitlements for nurses and others in the agedcare sector and weve got to make agedcare providers profitable so we need some significant reform in this regard.
We need to ensure that aged care is viable because of the challenges of the intergenerational report he said.
Aged and Community Services Australia ACSA has welcomed the social policy caucus committees endorsement of the need for sweeping reforms in aged care. 
ACSA chief executive officer Greg Mundy said the growing realisation that action is needed now to meet the challenges of an ageing population is refreshing. 
As the national peak body representing notforprofit and faithbased residential and community aged care providers we are delighted that Shayne Neumann has recognised there is much the Government can do and must do to achieve significant reforms. 
His acknowledgement that aged care services must be viable is a critical factor in how we meet the needs of older Australians. Greater choice and improved access to support and services within a sustainable aged care system must be more than an aspiration. 
JEDDAH Saudi Arabia Reuters Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife. 
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems. 
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants. 
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens. 
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals. 
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan. 
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education. 
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up. 
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported. 
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving. 
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter. 
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s. 
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s. 
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual. 
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist. 
Deutsche Bank rebounds after Brexit crash Dow Chemical to cut jobs Twilio hits new highs
The next Dodge Challenger will ride on an Alfaderived platform and it will feature a more powerful More A sharper and more powerful Dodge Challenger Hellcat could be on its way
Beepi the online usedcar marketplace now delivers nationwide and leases cars too. Previously Beepi More Beepi usedcar marketplace adds leasing and almost nationwide delivery
Volkswagen AG VLKAY delivered vehicles in Jun down . from units delivered in More Volkswagens VLKAY Sales Plunge . YY in June
Tata Motors TTM reported an increase in total sales of its commercial and passenger vehicles including More Tata Motors TTM Total Sales Increase YY in June
Toyota Motor Corps .T Thai unit has launched a voluntary redundancy program aimed at cutting around More Toyota plans to cut jobs in Thailand
Aston Martin and Red Bull Racing said they would build a supercar like no other and the results dont More Aston Martin and Red Bull teamed up for a radical supercar unlike any other
The Tesla Model X has doors that swing up for ease of exit in close quarters but youre supposed More Ouch Dont leave the garage with your Tesla Falcon Wing doors open
U.S. lightvehicle sales improved . year over year to . million units in the first half of More U.S. Auto Sales Hit Record in H SAAR Falls in June
A new law in Japan allows automakers to replace mirrors with cameras. Several components manufacturers More Will a new law in Japan kick off the end of car mirrors
Some may say its too late or about time but the Tesla Autopilot . due to be deployed in the More Highly anticipated Tesla Autopilot . release to roll out in July
Tesla says it is now producing cars at the rate of around per week and hopes to bump that up to More Tesla secondquarter deliveries fell short of target despite production jump
Tesla Motors Inc. TSLA delivered Model S and Model X vehicles in the second quarter of More Tesla Misses Q Delivery Target Focuses on Raising Output
Tesla Autopilot is under investigation by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration NHTSA More NHTSA investigates Tesla after fatal crash while vehicle was in autonomous mode
The fatal crash of a Tesla Motors Inc Model S in Autopilot mode has turned up pressure on auto industry More Tesla crash raises concerns about autonomous vehicle regulation
Toyota has done some cool body work to its GT to create an Initial D concept. The Initial D manga and More Toyota pays tribute to Trueno with Initial D GT concept
By Alexandria Sage and David Ingram SAN FRANCISCONEW YORK Reuters Tesla officially touts its partial More Tesla mixes warnings and bravado about handsfree driving
A sleeping driver and a terrified granny are among the many people who appear in popular YouTube videos More Sleeping driver terrified granny among Tesla Autopilot users on YouTube
BMW which recently said it would have a completely autonomous car by is holding a joint news conference More Updated Is BMW teaming up with Intel Mobileye to develop autonomous vehicles
On Thursday NHTSA announced plans to investigate the May fatality of a Florida man behind the wheel More Does Tesla have blood on its hands The complex morality of autonomy
Short naps can help improve your brain function but you have to make sure youre napping correctly. More Why you should be napping at work
The singer behind the catchy song Happy has plenty to smile about after selling his squarefoot More Pharrell Williams sells Miami penthouse for . million
The ubiquity of public WiFi makes it easy for smartphone users to lighten their data usage get some More This is why you should be cautious using public WiFi
Businesses are taking efforts to combat what they argue are often unfair or petty. Even some of Canadas More Even Peggys Cove Lake Louise get slammed in online reviews
According to new research YOLO is not just aspirational but might represent a real drive among youth More Desire to work hard play hard may serve evolutionary purpose
The restaurant industry has stepped up its campaign against a minimum wage in Alberta citing public More Pressure rises to delay minimum wage in Alberta
Alice Walton has decided to hit the old dusty trail and move on from her acre Rocking W Ranch. More Walmart heiress selling massive Texas ranch for . million
For the savvy investor the worldwide financial shakeup could actually be a good opportunity to buy when More How savvy investors can benefit from the Brexit vote
Tesla reported on Sunday that it delivered cars in the second quarter of short of. More Tesla has once again missed its delivery target
Its been a week since Britains vote to leave the European Union but still theres no clear understanding More The winners and losers of Brexit
At peak times more than travellers go through the security checkpoints at Vancouver International More things you wouldnt believe people tried to get through airport security
Kellogg Co is offering a grrrreat new spot for cereallovers with the opening of its first cereal cafe More Kelloggs cereal cafe to snap crackle and pop into Times Square
Canadian mining company Lucara is putting up its uncut carat diamond called the Lesedi La Rona More Diamond expected to fetch at least USM at London auction
A roughly yearold cuneiform stone tablet in possession of the British Museum in London shows More yearold tablet shows Mesopotamian workers paid in beer
Real estate firm Cushman Wakefield has ranked neighbourhoods in North America based on factors More The coolest neighbourhoods in Canada
The annual event includes tech and entertainment industry moguls with previous attendees including Apple More Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer Left Out of Allen Co.s Summer Camp for Billionaires
The U.K.s wealthiest residents are poorer following last months Brexit vote and will likely face further More Ouch How Brexit may hit UK millionaires and billionaires
Sophie Turner can transform into anyone. I mean shes so crazy talented that even her characters can More Sophie Turner is SO highfashion in her latest Instagram
Whether as the head coach at Mississippi State or an assistant at Texas AM Rick Stansbury has shown More Fivestar center picks Western Kentucky over higherprofile schools
Three quarters of the rooms will be transformed into upscale condominiums. More The WaldorfAstoria Will Close for a Billion Renovation
A new airline just joined the group. More These Are the Worlds Only FiveStar Airlines
With a flying time of about hours the plane can reachvirtuallyany destination on Earth Kestrel More This million Boeing private jet is a flying luxury home
With million you can invest in your perfect property in whichever Canadian province your heart desires. More What a million home looks like in Canada this week
The ongoing love affair known as athleisure continues with Nike which has tapped Kim Jones of LV for More Nikes Really Feeling This Whole HighFashion Thing Right Now
Reuters Ralph Lauren Corp has appointed former Coach Inc executive Jane Nielsen as chief financial More Ralph Lauren hires CFO from rival luxury retailer Coach Inc
Hugh Hefners Playboy Mansion is about to acquire a new owner the wealthy businessman who lives next More Wealthy nextdoorneighbour is buying Playboy Mansion
Gwen Stefanis new albumThis Is What the Truth Feels Like hasnt yet yielded a successful single More Gwen Stefanis Misery Video Employs High Fashion and Harrowed Glances
A dress with snacks at its disposal Better than the original. More PlusSize Model Recreates HighFashion Gown with Bags of Shrimp Chips Slays
For million buy yourself a stunning home on Keats Island in British Columbia or in the heart of More What a million dollar home looks like in Canada this week
Its probably pretty obvious that were obsessed with whats happening on the red carpet at Cannes this More Kendall Jenner looks like shes cosplaying as a high fashion Disney villain at Cannes
The last years have been a great time to get rich in India. Indias population of high net worth individuals More Since Indias superrich population has grown by nearly 
Taylor Rosenthal cant even legally drive but already has a plan to change the way people get firstaid More This year old turned down a M offer for startup
Alibaba Group Holding Ltds online shopping platform Taobao is tightening controls on the sales of luxury More Alibabas Taobao steps up measures to fight fake luxury goods
Quotes are realtime for NASDAQ NYSE and NYSEAmex when available. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo Finance partner page. Quotes are updated automatically but will be turned off after minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least minutes. All information provided as is for informational purposes only not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors incompleteness or delays or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo site you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems Inc. CSI. International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Morningstar Inc.
LONDON A senior British lawmaker says Prime Minister David Cameron will use the fallout from Englands riots to push through social reforms. 
Iain Duncan Smith who is in charge of welfare and employment policy as Work and Pensions Secretary said that four nights of looting and violence last week had served as a warning to the government. 
In an interview with weekly The Spectator magazine released Thursday Smith said the unrest across London and other major English cities would prove a pivotal moment in Camerons leadership. 
Cameron who took office in May has made it clear that this now is his big focus Duncan Smith was quoted as saying. 
Home Secretary Theresa May and Duncan Smith will report to Parliament in October will new plans to tackle gangrelated violence in Britain. 
Britains Prime Minister David Cameron speaks at a youth center in Witney his Parliamentary district in southern England Monday Aug. . AP Alastair Grant
The chairman of the Gillard Governments social policy caucus committee Shayne Neumann has told The Australian that reforms to aged care mental health and disability are to be delivered during Labors second term on the basis that the sectors are unsustainable.
Mr Neumann says he will meet regularly with Prime Minister Julia Gillard to push ideas developed by his group said a major social reform agenda was needed in the three key areas.
He said the government must completely overhaul aged care and mental health and look at a disability insurance scheme as its second term agenda reformist priorities. 
He said aged care had fundamental problems this Government must finally fix and conceded more work had to be done in mental health. 
I think we can do a lot more in mental health. For a long time we have managed aged care. we have to look to reforming it and I think theres a lot of things we can do.
Mr Neumann said the idea for a disability insurance scheme was something the Government would look at exploring.
The nurses federation has undertaken some really strong campaigns to increase wage entitlements for nurses and others in the agedcare sector and weve got to make agedcare providers profitable so we need some significant reform in this regard.
We need to ensure that aged care is viable because of the challenges of the intergenerational report he said.
Aged and Community Services Australia ACSA has welcomed the social policy caucus committees endorsement of the need for sweeping reforms in aged care. 
ACSA chief executive officer Greg Mundy said the growing realisation that action is needed now to meet the challenges of an ageing population is refreshing. 
As the national peak body representing notforprofit and faithbased residential and community aged care providers we are delighted that Shayne Neumann has recognised there is much the Government can do and must do to achieve significant reforms. 
His acknowledgement that aged care services must be viable is a critical factor in how we meet the needs of older Australians. Greater choice and improved access to support and services within a sustainable aged care system must be more than an aspiration. 
The social security system has been the talisman of the American welfare state.
Established by President Franklin Roosevelt in the depth of the depression in the s it established a generous system of state pensions for old age based on income and contributions.
It is now the largest single spending programme of the Federal government costing nearly bn each year.
With the growing budget deficit attention has been increasingly focusing on controlling the cost of such entitlement programmes where payments increase automatically as more people retire something likely to happen as the babyboomer generation begins retiring after .
Now President Bushs council of economic advisors have revived a radical plan to partly privatise social security.
Under one version of the Presidents plans younger workers under would be allowed to optout of most of their social security payroll taxes.
Instead they would put aside of their income in a personal retirement account which they could invest in the stock market.
Since the current social security system is a payasyougo system making up the shortfall could cost between trillion.
The money would have to be borrowed by issuing special government bonds increasing the governments overall indebtedness by and adding . to the debttoGDP ratio which is currently . by .
But the annual report from the Council of Economic Advisors argues that this temporary increase in government borrowing is not a problem from an economic perspective.
Originally President Bush planned to use the huge projected budget surpluses to fund his social security reform.
But the advisors argue that the growing budget deficit is not a reason for refraining from radical reform.
Since the budget surpluses forecast a few years ago have not materialised critics argue that adding personal retirement accounts to social security is impossible or impractical.
In reality the need to add resources to the social security system is no less pressing now that the surpluses have disappeared indeed they may be more so the report says.
The authors warn that without reform the total unfunded social security deficit could reach trillion.
According to the report if no action is taken then Federal spending will rise from of GDP now to of GDP by excluding debt interest payments.
Attempts to reform social security have caused a political firestorm in the past and several blueribbon commissions in the last decade have made recommendations which have led to reductions in benefits a delay in retirement age and increases in payroll taxes.
Democrats argue that Mr Bushs plans would add to the deficit take resources away from the private sector and lead to interest rate rises.
And some independent experts argue that the costs and fees involved in setting up private retirement accounts would outweigh the benefits for people on moderate or low incomes.
Congress may be reluctant to consider these proposals during an election year and last years bitter battle over the reform of the other major entitlement programme Medicare shows how difficult change can be.
But if Mr Bush manages to win reelection with an increased majority in Congress radical reform of social security could be back on the agenda.
BEIJING In an ambitious new road map for reforms in the next decade the ruling Chinese Communist Party CCP pledged to implement wideranging economic and social reforms which would see a relaxation of the countrys onechild policy and allow market forces to play a bigger role in the economy.
Some changes include those which Beijing has resisted for decades such as abolishing the controversial labour reform camps.
On the other hand Beijing also signalled its intention to tighten Internet controls which President Xi Jinping said could affect national security and social stability.
The announcement came days after a policy summit where Mr Xi appeared to have gained greater power and clout.
In a first Mr Xi who took power last November and is set to lead China till also issued a note explaining the need for the key reforms effectively staking his political legitimacy on them.
Looking ahead if we want to solve our various developmental challenges and address challenges and risks from all sides we have no choice but to further deepen our reform and opening up.
His note was released Friday by Xinhua news agency along with a word document known as decisions in short as it detailed the reforms approved at the Third Plenum or the third full gathering of the Central Committee which ended on Tuesday.
A word communique issued on Tuesday led to slumped markets disappointed with the lack of details. But on Friday a leaked copy of the decisions on social media fuelled the biggest stock market rally in two months.
Analysts say it could be the first time a CCP general secretary is personally explaining the decisions.
Get the latest news opinion trends coverage reports and more from AsiaOnestraight to your inbox Or download our apps from Apple store or Google Play.
document.writeSPH DIGITAL NEWS ASIAONE GROUP Copyright copy year . Singapore Press Holdings Ltd . Co. Regn. No. E.
Some movements are known as reactionary or regressive movements. These aims to reverse the social change .They highlight the importance and greatness of traditional values ideologies and institutional arrangements. They strongly criticize the fast moving changes of the present.
These movements are formed to resist a change that is already taking place in society. These can be directed against social and cultural changes which are already happening in the country.
These are attempts to take the society or a section of it towards a state of perfection. These are loosely structured collectivities that envision a radically changed and blissful state either on a large scale at some time in the future or on a smaller scale in the present. The Utopian ideal and the means of it are often vague but many utopian movements have quite specific programmes for social change. The Hare Krishna Movement of the seventies the movement towards the establishment of Ram Rajya and the Sangh Parivar the Communists and Socialists pronouncement of a movement towards the classless casteless society free from all kinds of exploitation etc.
Peasant movement is defined by Kathleen Gough as an attempt of a group to effect change in the face of resistance and the peasant are people who are engaged in an agricultural or related production with primitive means who surrender part of their or its equivalent to landlords or to agents of change. The history of peasant movements can be traced to colonial period when repressive economic policies the new land revenue system the colonial administrative and judicial system and the ruin of handicrafts leading to the overcrowding of land transformed the agrarian structure and impoverished the peasantry. In the zamindari system peasants were left to the mercies of the Zamindars who exploited them in form of illegal dues. The British government levied heavy land revenue in the Ryotwari areas. Peasants were forced to borrow money from the moneylenders and they were reduced to the status of tenants at will share croppers and landless laborers while their lands crops and cattle passed into the hands to landlords trader moneylenders and such peasants. When the peasants could take it no longer they resisted against the oppression and exploitation through uprisings. Peasant Movements occupy an important place in the history of social unrest in India though the aims and objectives of these movements differ in nature and degree from region to region. It is in this sense that these movements also aimed at the unification of the peasants of a region development of leadership ideology and a peasant elite. Through these movements emerged a new power structure and peasant alliance. The genesis of peasant movements rest in the relationship patterns of different social categories existing within the framework of feudal and semi feudal structure of our society. In the post Independence period the nature and objectives of the peasant movement have changed to getting remunerative prices for agricultural produce to increase agricultural production to establish parity between prices of agricultural produce and industrial goods and to get minimum wages for the agricultural laborers.
The Backward castes have been deprived of many social economic political and religious privileges. These people provided manual labor and the untouchables occupied the lowest position among the caste hierarchy. They were subjected to extreme form of exploitation. The colonial power accentuated the disparities in the distribution of economic power. The atrocities united the lower castes against the upper castes. Some of the important backward caste movement which came up was Satyashodak Samaj and Nadar Movement which consolidated the masses along the castelines.E.V Ramaswamy started SelfRespect movement against the Brahmins in South India. The SNDP movement in Kerala was more of a reformist movement. In s there was a widespread desire among the nonBrahmin castes to be categorized as Backward .Subsequently Backward Class commission was set up to look into the conditions and requirements of these classes. Mandal Commission submitted its report in recommending reservations for backward castes in educational institutions and government offices. However this move resulted in anti Mandal Commission movement which resulted in large scale violence and many students lost their lives.
Dalits are the suppressed people at the lost rung of the castbased hierarchy. Their inferior occupations and low levels of ascriptive status make them vulnerable for attacks at the hands of uppercaste people. The organizational efforts made by Dalit leadership for uplifting their status are known as Dalit movement. It is a protest against untouchability casteism and discrimination faced by the dalits.Dalit movement indicates some trends of protest ideologies which entail the following withdrawal and self organization high varna status and extolling of nonAryan cultures virtues abandoning of Hinduism and embracing other religions like Buddhism and Islam. Mahatma Gandhi in founded the All India Harijan Sevak Sangh to start education and schools for the dalits.Another most important dalit leader Dr.Ambedkar struggled to secure the basic human dignity to the dalits.The Mahad Satyagarh for the right of water led by him was one of the outstanding movements of the dalits to win equal social rights. The role of All India Depressed Classes Association and All India Depressed Classes Federation were the principal organizations which initiated a movement to improve the conditions of the dalits.These organizations aimed at improving their miserable conditions and to spread education among them. They worked to secure rights of admission to school drawing water from the public wells entering the temples and to use the roads.
Your source for news affecting the U.S. Social Security Administration Charles T. Hall
The fee claimants reps are allowed to charge is low. Our offices average fee per claim is . Thats hardly a kings ransom for the work that is done on the claim and hardly a kings ransom given we can only collect a fee on cases we win. In most personal injury cases the fee is and it is not capped. Before anyone says that a lot more work is put into PI cases consider the fact that most settle outside of court whereas in SSD only about are paid prior to hearing. It looks like these guys simply want to discourage people from practicing in this area of law. 
LOL.Ive done PI. And Work comp. There is a helluva lot more work in the average SSDI case. Lankford and his ilk dont have as a goal screwing the attorneys. That is a collateral benefit. The prize is getting the lawyers out of the system so he can REALLY stick it to the poor and disabled. 
Any update of the gridsDOT will not have the effect Republicans seem to think. Theres not really any such thing as unskilled sedentary work in the modern economy any update actually based on jobs currently existing in the national economy would result in a LOT more people getting paid. Which is why it hasnt been done. 
Interesting that Joe Manchin a Democrat trying to stay afloat in a conservative state would cosponsor this. Does he know how many of his constituents depend on social securitySSI disability checks to live Im just saying . . . 
I believe this proposal also eliminates the withholding of fees from the claimants pastdue benefits. Presumably the rep will have to collect the fee directly from the claimant.
A text of the bill is on the Senators site. Theres some fairly harsh changes including elimination of directfee payment and a day deadline to submit evidence before a hearing. Also it eliminates the treatingsource rule which seems cosmetic to me because its not like anyone lets the rule get in the way of a denial. 
Senator Lankford seems to be under the impression that claimants have two actual chances to win before a hearing at the DDS level and reconsideration. However statements made on this blog show that is not really true. Only those who meet a listing or compassionate disease have a reasonable chance of getting disability in the first two rounds because the review is cursory. For most its deny deny and hope they go away So naturally people who are truly disabled have no choice to appeal. Senator Lankford appears to be willing ignorant dumb on purpose of the process because he wants to cut cut cut
Also I think SSA should pay the reps at the hearing and beyond levels instead of taking it from the money awarded to claimants. This is not a civil lawsuit it is a benefit paid for by all as insurance to those who become disabled. So if SSA wants to drag a process out for years or more why must the claimant be punished How about coming up with a system that ensures due process in a timely matter. Perhaps a system whose goal is to figure out which people are disabled instead of which can find a doctor that is more willing to say they are
So this amendment was proposed last October. But the newest letter to Senator Hatch doesnt specifically mention the amendment. Is this a general wish list for Senator Lankford or does the amendment in its entirety have any chance of being signed into law 
Can you imagine the disaster it would be if the attorneysreps walked away from the system The field offices are critically understaffed to the point where it takes weeks to even get an appointment for a disability claim. I see a lot of clients who tried to start a claim on their own and could not. When we file a claim that tedious process of getting all the work and medical information is done for SSA claims rep has to do nothing. DDS has a person to call and get them information. We put the information in the files direct them to the right rules and SCREEN cases. I have deterred many many folks from applying because they did not meet rules. So if we all walk away..what happens How many employees would SSA have to hire and pay I think that SSA prefers it this way wherein the claimant pays for his own case development.
Politics as usual. Rich special interests who want to trash the disability system donate large sums to politicians. Politicians propose thinly veiled proposals designed to accomplish that aim. Google Koch brothers and Manchin and then Lankford.
No excuse for Manchin to tie himself to a bozo like Lankford. Lankford loves to talk about the truly disabled which translates in his world to comatose or quadriplegic. His world view was shaped by an aunt who was able to work despite missing part of a leg or something like that. The idea of an individualized assessment must be too much for his holier than thou mind to grasp.
CEBU Philippines A nationwide affiliation of independent business clubs will hold a oneday conference in Cebu City on June to discuss several reform measures that could address the countrys socioeconomic problems and strengthen its network.
This will be the first Independent Business Clubs Conference organized by the Makati Business Club and the Cebu Business Club with the theme Facing old challenges forging new engagement.
The main segment will be an open discourse dubbed as Key challenges for progressive Philippines with special guest speakers Senator Francis Escudero Senator Mar Roxas II and Defense Secretary Gilbert Teodoro Jr.
They will provide their views on education reforming the budget process good governance and the proposed Philippine Economic Roadmap for and beyond.
This event aims to strengthen the links between the clubs the value of which can be reflected through shared information and studies joint cooperation on projects for wider implementation and as the need may arise taking a unified stand on issues they agree on MBC executive director Alberto Lim said.
We are hoping that the output of the conference will not only be to agree on a way to communicate with each other but to engage in project we can undertake together Lim added.
Lim said that it is important for business communities in all regions to be enlightened on significant issues such as education fiscal reforms and good governance especially in the light of the upcoming election.
This gathering gives us a chance to know who among the candidates carry the issue we care about Lim said. Jessica Ann R. ParejaMEEV THE FREEMAN
The owner of this website www.dailynewsegypt.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature beddfbcdcua.
There are plenty of opinions on Social Security but one thing is certain Social Security is unsustainable at least in its current form. According to the latest report by the Social Security trustees the trust funds will be completely depleted in at which time the only money available to pay out benefits will be the payroll taxes coming in. This is expected to cover about threefourths of promised benefits so something clearly needs to be done if we want to fulfill our promises to seniors. When it comes to fixing Social Security there are two main options cut benefits or increase taxes.
Ways to cut benefits Across the board benefit cuts are extremely unpopular on both sides of the political spectrum after all both democrats and republicans rely on Social Security for retirement income. However there are other ways to cut back that could help with the shortfall.
Most republicans are in favor of some type of benefit cuts and there are variations of each of the above solutions being discussed by the presidential candidates. Keep in mind that since both sides of the political spectrum rely on Social Security some of the possible solutions have broad bipartisan support.
Increasing taxes is a popular solution If we dont want to change benefits the other way to eliminate the shortfall is to increase Social Security taxes. As of . of the first in earned income is paid as Social Security tax by both the employer and the employee so . in total. And just as with the benefit cuts I discussed earlier there are several ways this could happen.
A third option There could be a third option which hasnt been talked about much increase Social Security revenue without raising payroll taxes by simply diverting other money into the program. For example one candidate has suggested that we should reduce our foreign aid to potentially hostile countries and instead direct that portion of the budget into Social Securitys coffers.
This is indeed an interesting idea but is unlikely to take care of the shortfall all by itself so it would need to be used in conjunction with other reforms. Even so the possibility of maintaining Social Securitys solvency without major benefit cuts or tax increases could become quite popular.
Whats likely to happen History indicates that something will be done to fix the system. And its likely to involve a combination of the options discussed here. Certain measures such as acrosstheboard cuts are unlikely to get any serious political momentum but as weve seen there are some options that are quite popular.
Whatever happens to Social Security keep in mind that the presidential candidates Social Security plans should be taken with a grain of salt. Whatever reforms are ultimately chosen will have to go through Congress and its unlikely that our next president will completely get his or her way.
Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Matt brought his love of teaching and investing to the Fool in order to help people invest better. Matt specializes in writing about the best opportunities in bank stocks real estate and personal finance but loves any investment at the right price. Follow me on Twitter to keep up with all of the best financial coverage
Incoming President Rodrigo Duterte has unveiled an point economic agenda designed to attract more investors and bring about real inclusive growth to the people.
Time for a more revitalized economy that promotes business and likewise spreads benefits down to the masses.
Likewise Duterte has announced a social reform program that would improve discipline minimize alcohol consumption and help lessen crime.
Yes to a social reform program that could prove beneficial to Philippine society in the long run observing the democratic Constitutional principle of regulation not prohibition.
Economic Committee member Carlos Sonny Dominguez a prominent businessman and former agriculture secretary outlined Dutertes point economic agenda in a press conference noting that the clean elections and Dutertes call for national unity and healing have already triggered a percent uptick in the stock market.
Eightpoint agenda should boost business confidence and trigger economic growth.
Firstly Duterte says he will continue and maintain the current macroeconomic policies apparently to ensure stability.
But there will be reforms in tax revenue collection and along with bureaucratic reforms within the Bureau of Internal Revenue BIR and the Bureau of Customs BOC he says.
Secondly the Duterte administration will accelerate infrastructure spending by addressing among others major bottlenecks in the PrivatePublic Partnership PPP program setting aside percent of the countrys Gross Domestic Product GDP to infrastructure spending.
Thirdly it will ensure attractiveness of the Philippines to foreign direct investments by addressing restrictive economic provisions in the Constitution and our laws and enhancing competitiveness i.e. ease of doing in the economy.
Lesser restrictions on foreign investments as in other countries and more business promotion.
Fourth Team Duterte also vows to pursue a genuine agricultural development strategy by providing support services to small farmers to increase their productivity improve their market access and develop the agricultural value chain by forging partnership with agribusiness firms.
Agriculture to get a muchneeded boost the Philippines being an agricultural country.
Fifth it will address bottlenecks and improve administrative and management system.
Sixth Duterte vows to strengthen our basic education system and provide scholarship for tertiary education which are relevant to the needs of private sector employees.
Seventh the new administration will improve the income tax system to enable those who earn little to have more money in their pockets.
Eight Duterte will expand and improve implementation of the Conditional Cash Transfer CCT program.
Under the point economic agenda Dominguez says the Duterte government will also promote tourism in rural areas and expand PhilHealth coverage for the people.
As to the planned reforms in government bureaucracy the Duterte administration vows to vigorously pursue the prosecution of corrupt government officials and employees.
Meanwhile Duterte spokesman Peter Tiu Lavia says Duterte plans to improve discipline by imposing a p.m. curfew for children and a midnight cutoff for drinking and serving of liquor by establishments among others.
nodesi.parentNode.setAttributedatadisqusidentifier nodesi.getAttributerel s.src disqus.comforums disqusshortname count.js
The best way to reform Social Security is to eliminate the payroll tax. Seriously.
Social Security is going bankrupt but official Washington cant agree on how to fix it. Payroll tax receipts are insufficient to pay promised benefits. For decades the trustees of the Social Security program have annually warned that the trust fund is out of balance and absent reforms will go broke. Current projections show the fund will be exhausted by the early s to years from now. 
At that point there will be only enough tax revenue coming in to fund about percent of promised benefits. The options will be unpleasant. Either everyones monthly Social Security check will have to be reduced by percent or payroll receipts will have to be increased by percent or millions of retirees will have to be dropped from the rolls. Realistically politicians will balk. 
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan has called Social Securitys bankruptcy the most predictable crisis in history. All can see it coming yet none takes evasive action. Why Because conservatives and progressives cant agree on the remedy and dont trust each other enough to compromise. And voters dont seem to like any of the proposed remedies. So the default position is to do nothing.
Progressives want to raise the payroll tax. Conservatives are opposed. Conservatives want to reduce benefits. Progressives are opposed. Conservatives want to create personal accounts. Progressives are opposed. Progressives want to increase benefits. Conservatives are opposed. 
Progressives probably have the upper hand with their preferred remedy of increasing the payroll tax that currently funds Social Security. But that doesnt make it a good idea. Its a bad idea because the tax is already too high . percent of wages including the employer share and destroys jobs and hurts workers especially those with the lowest incomes. Some progressives want to increase the tax only on upperincome earners who are currently exempted from it on wage income above a year. That would help restore balance but only partly.
Conservatives have a basically sound idea with their proposal to invest some or all of Social Securitys receipts in the stock market via personal accounts. Doing so would fetch higher returns than the government can provide. But its also risky. Crashes happen. Either retirees would lose money or taxpayers would be forced to provide bailouts. At any rate the idea is going nowhere because Democrats strongly oppose it and so quietly do many Republicans. President George W. Bushs personal accounts proposal never came to a vote in either house of Congress even though Republican controlled both. Voters love the security part of Social Security and that means avoiding risk.
The most practical and in my view the best way to restore system balance would be to simply supplement the payroll tax from other revenue sources and in particular from the general fund i.e. income taxes. That would make the program solvent forever. Presto No more bankruptcy threat.
The conventional wisdom says well eventually meet in the middle by swallowing a mixture of tax hikes benefit cuts and a higher retirement age. Dont believe it. No such grand bargain will materialize until demanded by voters. Realistically that will only happen when the crisis is upon us by which point it will be too late. The closer we get to bankruptcy the less effective and less politically viable each of the traditional remedies becomes. Its a game of chicken and seems destined to end badly absent some creative thinking.
But wait. Isnt a grand bargain exactly what happened back in when the trust fund was on the brink of exhaustion and a Democratic Congress and President Ronald Reagan reluctantly came together to enact the Greenspan Commissions proposed compromise of payroll tax hikes and a higher retirement age
Yes that did happen. But this is not . The problem is much bigger now thanks to the babyboom generation which began retiring in and is now joining the rolls at the rate of seniors a day. Back in there were . workers for every retiree. By there will be only about workers for every retiree. The Greenspan age hike was phased in slowly over years. In fact its still being phased in. Any large lastminute age hike would be politically unacceptable to those nearretirees directly affected by it. And while the Greenspan tax hike amounted to a percent increase that was from a smaller base. It went from . percent of wages in to . percent in and thereafter. A solvencyrestoring tax hike in would take us from . percent to at least percent. Its hard to imagine voters going along with that high a rate.
The best time to reform Social Security was four or five decades ago. The next best time is today. But lacking a consensus we procrastinate. And the more we procrastinate the more politically impractical our options become and the further a second Greenspan grand bargain recedes into the mists of fantasyland.
I can predict with near percent certainty what will actually happen. Barring the miraculous Congress will bail out the Social Security trust fund from the general fund supplementing payroll tax receipts with other kinds. Its the path of least resistance and therefore the path most likely to be taken.
So the real question is not whether to tap the general fund but when And if were going to move away from reliance on the payroll tax why not eliminate it altogether 
Think of the upsides. With this one simple reform wed not only make Social Security permanently solvent wed also increase workers paychecks make taxes less regressive and create more jobs. Admittedly absent other reforms wed also increase the deficit. But thats a problem we need to tackle no matter what. The benefits of this Social Security reform would outweigh the downsides. And I suspect voters would love it.
JEDDAH Saudi Arabia Reuters Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife. 
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems. 
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants. 
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens. 
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals. 
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan. 
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education. 
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up. 
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported. 
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving. 
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter. 
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s. 
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s. 
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual. 
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist. 
JEDDAH Saudi Arabia Reuters Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife. 
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems. 
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants. 
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens. 
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals. 
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan. 
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education. 
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up. 
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported. 
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving. 
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter. 
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s. 
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s. 
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual. 
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist. 
Ghana is putting in measures and reforms to ensure the safety and wellbeing of children especially those in the alternative care system adoption and foster care in line with the provisions of The Hague Convention.
Nana Oye Lithur the Minister of Gender Children and Social Protection announced this at a meeting with representatives of NonGovernmental Organisations and agencies in child care services to discuss the reforms.
She said the reforms expected to address the gaps in the existing system and laws on adoption and foster care including the Childrens Act Act have structures and guidelines for both incountry and intercountry adoptions and were the result of recommendations made by a technical working group instituted by the Ministry with support from the United Nations Childrens Fund UNICEF in to assess the alternative care system in Ghana.
She noted that prior to the institution of the working group there had been concerns on the intercountry adoptions with Ghana being ranked among the top countries with the highest rates of intercountry adoptions.
This prompted the Government she said to commission an audit between and .
It found among other things that per cent of the homes sampled were unlicensed and unknown to the state while the number of orphanages had increased by per cent between and .
Based on the recommendation of the group Ghana has gone through the processes to accede to The Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption.
Nana Oye said Ghana placed the Instrument of accession to the Convention at The Hague in April and it was awaiting a response.
On completion she said the provisions of the Convention would be binding on Ghana.
She said the national frameworks were also being reformed to make them compliant with the provisions of The Hague Convention as well as other international frameworks such as the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
The Minister explained that The Childrens Act Amendment Bill which was before Parliament made provisions for the centralisation of adoptions to ensure the proper coordination restriction of adoptions to the high courts which were not specified in the old law.
Besides she said the Bill had clear definitions of the roles of competent authorities in the placement of children for alternative care children who qualified for foster care and adoption and the offences and punishments against those who violated the care processes.
The amendments she stated would formalise the establishment of a central adoption authority within the Department of Social Development which would enable the Government to better comply with its international obligations on childrens rights among other benefits.
We are also working on the passage of Foster Care and Adoption Regulations that will enable government to lift the moratorium on the adoption and allow for the adoption processing procedures to fit within the framework of the Hague convention she stated.
Mr. Edmund Amarkwei Foley of the GIMPA Law School took the participants through the challenges and gaps in the existing laws that necessitated the reforms as well as the provisions of the Amendment Bill.
He explained that in deciding to place any child in foster care or up for adoption the best interest of the child must always be paramount and the new provisions ensured this including provisions for children above years to give their written consent for adoption.
Madam Emilia Akotia the Head of the Central Adoption Authority said among other interventions a Foster Care Fund would be established to help support individual foster care givers.
The fund would be managed by the Foster Care Services Unit of the Department of Social Development.
Mrs Jane Irina Adu the Head of the Potters Village Ghana which operates a shelter for abused women and abandoned children said the reforms especially foster care were good and would help relieve some of the orphanages and home of some stress of taking in and providing for many children.
If the children are given to foster parents who will carry the responsibilities of the children in love taking them as their own children and not discriminating against them or using them as slaves or servants then its a perfect thing she stated.
She however stressed the need to conscientise the public on the need to foster other children considering that it was in the interest of the nation as a whole.
Labor code reforms will affiliate homemakers to Ecuadors social security system for the first time in the countrys history.
The reforms to the labor code currently being debated within Ecuadors National Assemblyseekto expand rights for all citizens. One of the majorcomponents of thereform would for the first time recognize homemakers as productive actors in society. If passed the new labor code would incorporate an estimated . million women into the social security system who are currently excluded as not engaging in work recognized by the state.
It is an excellent benefit for me as a person and for all homemakers. Imagine now all homemakers could have insurance so that we can be treated in the hospital. We would be able to retire. This is excellent said Marcia Mendez a homemaker from Quito.
At anevent markingthe International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women in GuayaquilTuesday President Rafael Correa spoke to close to women many of whomwere housewives on the benefits of the reforms.
We are recognizing the work that is done at home. This defines us as part of st Century Socialism said President Correa.
The Presidentsaid that a total of US millionwould be investedby the state to fully cover homemakers.
Official sources have revealed that homemakers contribute percent to the total gross domestic product through work that has historically not been recognized by the state.
Maria Cardenas a journalist who also describes herself as a homemaker told teleSUR English I know of many women who have additional jobs and though they are not paid by the month they work very hard just to bring in a little extra money. So this percent I think is actually quite low.
As a historically neglected group homemakers wouldreceive access to health care and retirement plans among other benefits.
While extending rights to homemakers and recognizing their activities as forms of work thereforms are alsoseeking to give greater protection to othermarginalized groups such as LGBT women and AfroEcuadorean workers by prohibiting fixedterm contracts and bymakingthe election of workplace committees mandatory.
Officialsexpectthat percent of homemakers would be registered with the social security system by the end of President Correas term in .
The development of organized recreation programs in the American settlement and playground movements during the late th and early th centuries was part of the progressive reform response to industrialization urbanization and immigration and reflected concerns about the influence of the physical and social environment on the individual. This paper offers a brief background on the settlement and playground movements in the United States and gives an overview of core themes surrounding recreation as expressed by social reformers from to the s. By current standards some of the concerns and issues regarding recreation sound very earnest and almost quaint. However recreation activities particularly recreation for youth were a serious subject of social reform. Health fitness and physical activity for the individual were viewed as important national assets. Recreation was a means by which life in a urban industrial society could be made more tolerable immigrant children molded into Americans and children of all classes protected from vice and prepared for citizenship. Equally important reformers viewed organized recreation as a way to reconcile the needs of an industrial nation with the principles of democracy.
The American settlement and playground movements shared many of the same theories about the importance of recreation. The two movements evolved at essentially the same time and crosspollinated both ideas and personnel. Recreation ideologies and programs in both were influenced by turn of the century progressive reform spirit belief in both public and private solutions to social problems and emerging theories of psychology and child development including the recognition of adolescence as significant developmental period. Across the country particularly in poor urban areas settlement houses and playground associations established some of the first playgrounds and fought for public funding for recreation. They developed core themes and methodologies that emphasized the relationship between organized play health character and democracy.
Histories of the playground movement credit the Sand Gardens in Boston which were established in with being the first supervised public playground in the U.S. When Charlesbank Gymnasium opened in Boston in it became the first public free equipped outdoor playground. The first playground in New York City opened in by University Settlement. In Hull House playground opened in Chicago. By American cities had supervised playgrounds and the city of Chicago alone spent million on new playgrounds. National Recreation Association records Brief History of the Playground and Recreation Movement in America Knapp and Hartsoe Curtis The Playground
As the call for play space for children gained ground the Playground Association of America PAA was established in . The founding meeting of the Association was held at the YMCA in Washington DC on April . The delegates were eighteen men and women from playground associations public school and municipal recreation departments settlements teachers colleges the kindergarten movement and charity organizations. Luther H Gulick director of physical education in the New York City school system and founder of the Public School Physical Education Society and the Academy of Physical Education was elected as the associations first president. Gulick brought a YMCAinfluenced belief in the connection between physical and spiritual health to the PAA. In while head of the gymnasium department of the YMCAs training school in Springfield Illinois Gulick along with James Naismith developed the game of basketball.
That inasmuch as play under proper conditions is essential to the health and the physical social and moral wellbeing of the child playgrounds are a necessity for all children as much as schools. National Recreation Association records Early Days undated
The PAA which became the National Recreation Association in lobbied for municipal funding of supervised public playgrounds developed training programs for play leaders provided professional consultation and coordination services to fledgling local recreation departments and facilitated community surveys and playground campaigns. It also offered lectures and a publication service. The associations journal Playground was a source of practical advice programming ideas and playground theory. During the PAAs early years funding from the Russell Sage Foundation helped the organization finance services and startup costs.
The first social settlement Toynbee Hall opened in in the East End of London. It was the inspiration for the American settlement movement. The social settlement was based on the idea that those who wanted to help the poor would live or settle in the neighborhoods that they hoped to improve often in a building purchased or donated by a benefactor. Many of these settlement workers were young female graduates of education and nursing programs or womens colleges. They endeavored to improve the lives of their working class often immigrant neighbors though social reform educational programs health services and friendly example or uplift.
The first settlement in the United States University Settlement on New Yorks Lower East Side was founded by Stanton Coit in . In Jane Addams founded Hull House in Chicago. Andover House in Boston and the Henry Street Settlement New York opened in and respectively. The National Federation of Settlements was formed in although associations of settlements in individual cities had been meeting since the s.
Settlement houses which existed on the front lines of poverty and urbanization were logical sites for recreation programs in working class immigrant urban neighborhoods. They often provided the only recreation facilities and programs available in these areas. Even prior to the formation of the PAA settlements fought for public funding of playgrounds often with mixed results when faced with disinterest or lack of funds on the part of municipal governments. In the face of government indifference or footdragging many settlements formed their own recreational facilities and programs.
Several core themes motivated settlement and playground reformers. Both movements drew on ideas about industrialization psychology child development and the effect of the environment on the individual to form a core argument that organized recreation was essential to the physical mental and moral well being of the individual and critical to a modern democratic industrial society.
Not surprisingly an important argument for recreation was the health and fitness of individuals. Physical exercise improved overall health and benefited both mind and body. Recreation advocates cited toned muscles improved circulation increased vitality better appetite and improved coordination. Physical fitness was only one component of the recreation movement however. Individuals were made fit not only for their own sake but for the good of democratic society the industrial economy and the future of American civilization.
Biology psychology and evolution were used to support the argument that play was an essential part of the human character and that constructive supervised recreation was necessary to positive character development. Humans and children in particular were described as having natural instincts and needs for play outdoor activity and group association. The very first sentence of the NRA philosophy describes play as a fundamental urge in human existence scarcely less powerful and important than the urges of physical hunger and sex. National Recreation Association records Brief Summary National Recreation Association Philosophy undated Reformers argued that natural instincts lead youth to want play and fun but could also mislead them. Recreation channeled and refined the play instinct.
Connecting recreation and character led some to draw links between physical and moral weakness. Citing physical studies of college students caught cheating or boys brought to juvenile court Lee Hamner of the Russell Sage Foundation Child Hygiene Department and the PAA concluded that the physically inferior lack backbone in both the physical and moral sense and that The physically weak seem to be a prey to temptation. Hamner . Health and Playgrounds
Gendered concepts regarding natural abilities of boys and girls also influenced arguments about recreation and character. In particular boys were portrayed as having instincts for camaraderie leadership war hunting and physicality that could be developed for citizenship or lead to crime delinquency and immorality. Athletics and recreation were promoted either as a natural antidote to or training for boys warlike instincts depending upon who was writing. Both boys and girls recreation emphasized fitness and health leadership self reliance and courage but promoters of recreation for girls also emphasized how sports added to beauty grace and friendships. Some recreation workers made the assumption that girls did not like competition.
Whereas boys were portrayed as training for leadership girls recreation aimed to promote sturdy normal womanhood wise efficient motherhood and worthy citizenship. National Federation of Settlements records Study of Young Girls circa In some cases girls were portrayed as needing more vitality and intelligence than their foremothers presumably to offset the stresses of modern life or to survive their lives as urban shop girls or garment workers with their morals and reproductive ability intact. National Federation of Settlements records Conference on Girls work circa Recreation for girls related to preserving and improving racial stock as well as to preparation for citizenship. The continuance of the race and its welfare which is the main business of life is left in the hands of careless children without any preparation or guidance whatever. The guardian of the future of race must herself be guarded from her own ignorance and folly and the selfishness or vice of others. Kennard . Emotional Life of Girls
Some girls recreation programs were hampered by concerns for health and over exertion. At times girls recreation staff seemed conflicted about how to reconcile physical activity for girls with assumptions about feminine characteristics. Participants in a United Neighborhood Houses of New York Girls Workers meeting in concluded It is best to develop athletics for girls alone since the ideals should be entirely different from the boys stressing group work and the development of general physique instead of training individuals for recordbreaking. A Miss Wyman dwelt upon our moral responsibility in supervising athletics for girls and pointed out that the question of jumping for girls is a mooted one and that in no case should indoor jumping be allowed nor outdoor jumping without a soft sand jumping pit on account of the jar. United Neighborhood Houses records Scrapbook At first glance recreation advocates of the s appear to have taken more active athletic approach to girls recreation than their counterparts of the s and s. However more research is needed to determine the existence and prevalence of such attitudes.
Building character on the playground benefited society as well as the individual. Citizenship and neighborliness were touted as outgrowths of recreation. Speaking to the National Conference of Charities and Correction in Lee Hamner declared The playground of today is the republic of tomorrow. If you want twenty years hence a nation of strong efficient men and women a nation in which there shall be justice and square dealing work it out today with the boys and girls on the playground. Hamner Health and Playgrounds
Settlement and playground advocates were eloquent on the subject of recreation as a foundation of citizenship. References to honor loyalty subjection to the rule of authority fairness honesty and recognition of merit flowed freely. Gulick Lies Kennedy ca. National Recreation Association records A Constructive Creed They emphasized the group as a means of socialization and sports as an excellent source of group cooperation and loyalty. Playground National Song states While playing we learn our duties We owe to one and all For with fair play and square deal too we are ready for our countrys call. National Recreation Association records undated People who play together find it easer to live together. Individuals enjoying a wholesome happy play life are more loyal as well as more efficient citizens. declared the PAAs A Constructive Creed. National Recreation Association records See Kenneth E Reid on the formulation of group work as a method.
Much has been written about the efforts of settlement workers and other early th Century reformers to Americanize immigrants. Teams of first and second generation immigrant children playing American sports such as basketball or baseball or participating in track and field events with their classical Greek associations were an important way that settlements fulfilled their role as socializers and trainers of new citizens. Play as a school of The Citizen written in by Joseph Lee philanthropist reformer and vice president and future president of the PAA is a denselypacked exploration of child development democracy and recreation. In it Lee expresses ideas about freedom and cooperation through sport that were an important theme of recreation reformers. Lee argues that recreation develops spiritual communication bravery a sense of organization single minded determination conscious participation rhythmic instinct loyalty and a sense of membership. Significantly he contrasts these traits to the mechanical soldier of an autocracy the hypnotic performance of a stereotyped part or the primitive tribal consciousness. Charities and The Commons Vol. August In this light organized recreation was one of the building blocks of the republic. Properly equipped and run by a good leader of a high personal type the playground was a school of all civic virtues. Curtis The Playground 
But what about those who lived in poor urban areas or worked long hours in factories shops and offices What kind of citizens would they become It is not an accident that the settlement and playground movements evolved along with the industrialization and urbanization trends of the later th early th centuries. Reformers in the settlement and playground movements expressed profound concern about industrialization urbanization and mechanization concern for how Americans could retain their health individuality as opposed to citizens of non democratic countries and moral character in the modern world.
Settlement and recreation workers often used the phrase congested districts to described poor tenement neighborhoods. The concern with congestion related not just to overcrowding. The affect of crowding on physical health nerves and character was a constant refrain of the recreation and settlement movements. Furthermore reformers argued the natural physical energies of children especially boys led them to want play and fun but had no good outlet in the city. Speaking to the first Play Congress in Jane Addams noted We see all about us much vice which is merely a love for pleasure gone wrong. Public Recreation and Social Morality Without space for supervised play children played in streets roamed the city or fell prey to commercial recreation places. Streets were described as a school of crime. Curtis The Playground
The urban environment made recreation more difficult but even more necessary. The fresh air sunlight activity and freedom of movement of the country were contrasted to the vitiated air idleness confinement and overcrowding of city life. Lack of sunlight and pure air in cities was a constant refrain. Helene Ingram Superintendent of Relief for the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor cited small dark bedrooms the damp unwholesome basements the tall overcrowded houses the narrow street the scorching pavements the airless atmosphere in her paper on fresh air work at the National Conference of Charities and Correction. The Value of the Fresh Air Movement 
Repeatedly reformers expressed the fear that the nations youth were unfit for citizenship and not prepared to defend the country and identified urban life as one cause of the crisis. During the s the poor results of many World War I era selective service exams in which percent of inductees were supposedly found not fit for service were cited repeatedly. We have seen for the first time the nations child measured weighed and found wanting.. said the National Federation of Settlements. Study of Young Girls ca Young men were described as incapable of effective service and that at a time when civilization hung in the balance. Lies 
Reformers argued that urban life not only cut people off from the land but also from each other and from beneficial traditions. This argument was applied to immigrants in particular who were envisioned as uprooted deprived of cultural background and lacking in American traditions of liberty and individuality. Luther Gulick wrote how social pressures on the family and immigration with its mixing of different cultures lead to loss of traditions that were handed down from generation to generation. He believed that tradition had broken in the United States and deprived children of the guidance they needed to develop. Therefore he wrote we need tradition carriers play leaders and thats what the directors of the playground are. Doctrine of Hands off in Play 
Recreation advocates were conscious of living in the machine age. The repetition of machine work and the increased pace of life that resulted from modern inventions were viewed as damaging to the nerves and body. Toil indoors with machinery and the drudgery of repetitive labor in a factory or office were portrayed as dehumanizing and enervating as opposed to the active outdoor work of an idealized agrarian past. The NRA philosophy stated It is believed that even the most citified individual has remnants of biological hunger for the soil National Recreation Association records circa A recurring theme was the fear that industrial society would transform the individual into a mere robot a clod Lies who lacked the desire for individuality and freedom and therefore the desire to defend them. Urban dwellers and factory workers especially immigrants who supposedly had no traditions of freedom of their own were portrayed as especially vulnerable to this loss of individuality and vitality. Recreation literature sometimes contained an explicit or implied contrast between American workers and those in nondemocratic countries and the fear that Americans would become cogs.
Some recreation leaders cautioned against overscheduled time or regimented play and urged an emphasis on play that led to spontaneity joy and exuberance what reformers called Play Spirit. Henry S. Curtis Secretary of the PAA stated Play is our education in the spirit of joyousness but is has much to do not merely with the joyousness of childhood but with the joyousness and optimism of all after life adulthood. The Playground The right combination of freedom and structure was necessary in order for recreation to successfully instill a desire for freedom alongside a willingness to work cooperatively and subordinate ones own will to the group.
Mary Simkhovitch founder of Greenwich House settlement argued that Recreation like education has suffered from regimentationTo be done good to to be planned for to be cast into a mold to be the victim of a program means the fixing of well defined patterns of thought and conduct according to a predetermined standardRecreation then has to begin with the understanding of the individual.Recreational guidance like vocational guidance has its base in a psychology which takes into account native gifts practical opportunity the background of social experience and tradition in which the individual is placed. Recreation in a Settlement Program 
Settlement workers believed firmly in the settlement as a positive influence and as a counterpoint to life at home or on the streets. They were particularly concerned for the development of the children of immigrants and the negative influences of poor neighborhoods and old country ways of immigrant parents. This fit handinglove with theories about the benefits of wholesome supervised activities and the dangers of unsupervised commercial recreation. The tenement home was no longer a qualified place in which education recreation and association could go on many parents were so far out of relation with the actualities of life that they were not competent guides to their children in matters of health education recreation and vocation. Kennedy Settlement Method Bad homes and the lure of commercial leisure activities threatened these children. Louise de Koven Bowen President of the Juvenile Protective Association of Chicago speaking at National Conference of Charities and Correction in described with delicious horror the result of this situation. The girl living in tenements and working in the shop is nervously tired at end of day home is unattractive She goes out onto the street and to the cheap theater whose standard she possible adopts because she has none of her own or else she goes to the dance halls. Her vitality is at a low ebb. Authors emphasis She takes her first drink which the boy in order to show his gallantry presses upon her and so she takes her first downward step The Need of Recreation . Recreation programs in the settlements and city playgrounds provided one counterbalance to the leisuretime problem but an attack on commercialized recreation was essential to winning the fight for the character of the nations future citizens. Motion picture houses saloons pool halls vaudeville theatre and even candy stores and ice cream parlors were portrayed as low vicious lustful cheap sordid and dissipated. Bellamy National Recreation Association Thomas Dance halls were a chief target of recreation reformers. Robert A. Woods of the Andover House settlement wrote in the Vice Problem in Boston dated that The special evils which they present come of the free and indiscriminate mingling of young people who would ordinarily maintain quite a range of moral standards. Woods suggested that social workers could combat objectionable forms of dancing with attractive presentations of the better way. Woods Antidance hall advocates expressed tremendous concern for the protection of innocent girls who might enter dance hall and the mingling of middle class girls with working class girls or even prostitutes. Dance halls were portrayed as scenes of predation and moral downfall.
Recreation is stronger than vice and recreation alone can stifle the lust for vice. wrote Jane Addams in The Spirit of Youth and the City Streets . Settlement and playground reformers took these words to heart. Good recreation was described and contrasted to evil recreation as wholesome vigorous manly stimulating joyous free organized and cooperative. To settlement and playground reformers good recreation meant supervised recreation. Their programs focused on athletics team games such as basketball volley ball and baseball circle games for young children gymnastics or drill track and field games play festivals or sports days hikes and outings and camping. Basketball was king of boys recreation especially in urban areas. Boys Athletics in Settlements in the City of New York notes that of the settlements studied all had basketball programs and had baseball teams. Handball boxing volleyball track swimming and informal games were also popular. Welfare Council of New York in Albert Kennedy papers Settlements fought for and then arranged to use city athletic fields. Most had indoor gyms and many had outdoor playgrounds. Some resourceful settlements that could scrape together funding even erected playgrounds on their roofs. There were at least such playgrounds in New York City by . In addition to sports recreation also included settlement clubs dancing aesthetic or folk dances handicrafts pageants dramatics sings stunts and cheers.
Properly organized and filled with play spirit recreation combated the temptations of commercial amusements and produced healthy citizens who were willing to be lead by those who showed themselves to be worthy captains. PAA literature was full of stories of children saved from drudgery delinquency and squalor by recreation. Little thin hands and arms flabby from inactivity have become brown and firm. Pinched faces and dull eyes have taken on new light and expression. Coming from stuffy hot rooms many of them have for the first time come into a real childrens world and have been free. Six True Stories undated Recreation not only benefited individual but also transformed a nation of alien immigrants or downtrodden unhealthy factory workers into cohesive healthy population of citizens working for common good or ready to defend their country.
Addams Jane . Public Recreation and Social Morality in Charities and the Commons Vol. August pp.
Albert Kennedy papers. Welfare Council of New York Boys Athletics in Settlements in the City of New York Box folder Social Welfare History Archives University of Minnesota Libraries
Bellamy George . A Community Recreation Program for Juveniles in Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction pp
Bowen Louise de Koven . The Need of Recreation in Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction p. 
Chapin T.F. Play as a Reformative Agency in Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction pp
Curtis Henry S. . The Playground in Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction p
Gulick Luther . Play and Democracy in Charities and the Commons Vol. August pp
Gulick Luther Doctrine of Hands Off in Play National Recreation Association records Box .
Hamner Lee F. . Health and Playgrounds in Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction p.
Ingram Helene. . The Value of the Fresh Air Movement in Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction p
Kennard Beulah . Emotional Life of Girls in Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction pp
Kennedy Albert. ca. . The Settlement Method manuscript Albert Kennedy papers Social Welfare History Archives University of Minnesota Libraries
Lee Joseph . Play as a School of the Citizen in Charities and the Commons Vol. August pp
National Federation of Settlements records Social Welfare History Archives University of Minnesota Libraries
National Recreation Association records Social Welfare History Archives University of Minnesota Libraries
Brief History of the Playground and Recreation Movement in America undated Box folder 
Brief Summary National Recreation Association Philosophy undated Box Philosophy file
Playground Association of America A Constructive Creed Box folder 
Brief Summary National Recreation Association Philosophy circa Box Philosophy folder p
Playground Association of America Six True Stories undated Box folder p.
Simkhovitch Mary . Recreation in a Settlement Program in Proceedings of the National Conference of Social Work p
Thomas W. I. Mrs. The Five Cent Theatre in Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction pp.
United Neighborhood Houses of New York records Social Welfare History Archives University of Minnesota Libraries
Minutes of the Round Table on A City Plan for Settlement Athletics Scrapbook Box folder 
Winter T. Luther Halsey Gulick the encyclopedia of informal education www.infed.orgthinkersgulick.htm.
Woods Robert A. The Vice Problem in Boston Reprint from National Municipal Review Volume December pp.
Linnea M. Anderson is Assistant Archivist Social Welfare History Archives University of Minnesota.
Labors six years in government will be remembered as at best a time of supercharged social reform and at worst a period of profligacy and chaos.
Or as former Labor PM Bob Hawke described it in the last days of this election campaign a bloody mixed bag.
In Labors Kevin became Australias th Prime Minister and seized on the national mood by addressing signature issues that marked a repudiation of John Howards years at the helm.
Mr Rudd signed Australia up to the Kyoto protocol on climate change dismantled Howards Pacific Solution and delivered the official National Apology to the Stolen Generations an action he will arguably be most fondly remembered for.
But he and his frontbench team were soon faced with a mighty economic challenge protecting Australia from the global financial crisis GFC.
In late and early the Rudd government responded by spending more than billion to bolster the economy sending out oneoff cash payments of to pensioners families and low to middleincome earners and building new school infrastructure.
The feared recession never took hold but even so it proved difficult for Labor to capitalise on a victory over an absent foe.
Indeed some of the stimulus measures became a source of scandal in coming years.
At the end of Mr Rudd moved on what has been a defining and vexing issue for both political parties in the past two terms of government climate change.
He announced his emissions trading scheme with an ambitious target of a per cent reduction in carbon emissions by .
Soon after ructions over that issue and others within the Coalition left Mr Rudd facing a more aggressive Opposition Leader when Malcolm Turnbull who had backed an emissions trading scheme ETS was dumped by one vote for Tony Abbott.
Opposition to the ETS was bolstered by a nonresult at the international climate change conference in Copenhagen the same month an event now infamous in Australia for Rudds reported accusation that the Chinese delegation were trying to rat f us.
Adding to the troubling mood surrounding climate change the governments home insulation scheme part of one of the economic stimulus packages set up to tackle the GFC was suspended and then canned following the deaths of four insulation installers and scores of house fires.
The Prime Minister demoted star frontbencher Peter Garrett stripping him of his climate change responsibilities.
Another stimulus measure the Building the Education Revolution which paid for new buildings and infrastructure at schools was also subject to attack over claims of rorting and mismanagement.
Desperately keen to change the subject Mr Rudd launched a multibillion health and hospitals plan in March and spent weeks visiting hospitals and health centres spruiking its virtues. 
By April every state and territory had signed up accepting the offer of Commonwealth control of per cent of hospital funding bar Western Australia.
But the national conversation was inexorably drawn back to an ETS when Mr Rudd put it on the backburner effectively dumping it until at least.
Within the same week attacks on Labors economic credibility opened on another front when he and then Treasurer Wayne Swan announced a new tax on the super profits of the big mining companies.
By now Mr Rudds approval ratings had fallen from the heady heights of his nascent days as PM to what would normally be considered more reasonable levels.
The June passing of Australias first paid parental leave scheme through Parliament like the historic boost to pensions the previous year failed to garner much traction and were outweighed by criticism of Labors agenda.
The Governments inability to sell its achievements was already acknowledged as a core failing.
On June factional leaders put their weight behind Julia Gillard to oust Mr Rudd.
The next day caucus numbers were so clearly behind Mr Rudds deputy that he did not even stand in the leadership ballot.
Ms Gillard became Australias th Prime Minister the first woman in the job in a bloodless coup a change she defended by saying a good government had lost its way.
Pledging to tackle a trifecta of political trouble asylum seekers the mining tax and carbon emissions Ms Gillard swiftly called an election.
But her campaign faltered over a promise to show the real Julia and was further hamstrung by damaging leaks the source of which has never been pinpointed though Ms Rudds critics have no doubt where to lay the blame.
The election resulted in a hung parliament the first since WWII but days later after intense negotiations with Lower House independents and the Greens Ms Gillard prevailed.
The Opposition mounted a furious campaign against Ms Gillard from the beginning of Australias rd Parliament and many pundits questioned how long it would last.
But against the odds and due in no small part to the Prime Ministers negotiation skills she held the minority government together to serve a full term and steered a record number of bills through the Parliament.
But they included controversially legislation to bring in a carbon tax that would eventually cede to an emissions trading scheme.
The added sting came from Gillards campaign promise that there would be no carbon tax under a government I lead.
The tax became the focus of a relentless barrage of attack from the Mr Abbott who kept his team on a warfooting in the hope of tipping the delicate parliamentary balance his way.
But it was far from the only failing Mr Abbott seized on in what he recently described as a targetrich environment. 
On asylum seekers Ms Gillards solution began with an aim of establishing offshore processing in East Timor. That fell over without any agreement from the Timorese government. 
A peopleswap plan with Malaysia collapsed when the High Court ruled it invalid. 
Pokies reform tougher media laws the new mining tax the scandals surrounding former Labor MP Craig Thomson and former LiberalturnedSpeaker of the House Peter Slipper were all grist for the Opposition mill.
It drowned out Ms Gillards catchcry on improving education through the socalled Gonski funding plan and other social measures such as the plain packaging of cigarettes and establishing a royal commission into child abuse.
Perhaps the only reform that rose above the mudslinging was the national disability insurance scheme NDIS perhaps because it won solid bipartisan support.
Her misogyny speech in October became a global hit but more often it was she who was the target of sexist protest signs and even a menu written up for a Liberal party fundraiser.
Dogged also by poor polling the Prime Minister could never escape the genesis of her leadership nor could her party ever rise above the deep enmities within.
Party elder Simon Crean lit the first match in February with a blistering attack on Mr Rudd accusing him of disloyalty. 
It sparked a spill of the leadership and in the days leading up to it a conflagration in ALP ranks with the Gillard camp publicly denouncing her rival one even called Mr Rudd a psychopath.
Eighteen months after she ousted him from the job Ms Gillard again prevailed but the damage to the party was done.
Again just over a year later Ms Gillard was forced to call another spill this time Mr Rudd failed to even challenge acknowledging he did not have enough support in caucus.
In June this year the final sitting week became the killing season for Ms Gillard.
A third attempt by the Rudd forces succeeded in bringing him back to the Lodge as the partys best chance of victory at this election.
But his return came at a heavy price for Labor even without Saturday nights cost. 
The turmoil claimed the scalps of several prominent frontbenchers Greg Combet Craig Emerson Mr Crean Martin Ferguson Peter Garrett Stephen Smith not to mention Ms Gillard herself.
The mixed bag of the past six years has ended with Australias oldest political party brought to its knees at the hands of the electorate.
Labor in Opposition now faces the crushing task of trying to get to its feet again and mount winning arguments against a triumphant and dominant incoming Coalition government.
Labor is increasingly confident its candidate for the WA seat of Cowan Anne Aly will be electedwhich would make her the first female Muslimin Australias parliament.
Malcolm Turnbull wanted an exciting time. Hes got it writes Lateline political correspondent David Lipson.
One of Malcolm Turnbulls key reasons for calling a double dissolution election was to clean out the crossbench for a more functional Senate. The result is anything but.
This service may include material from Agence FrancePresse AFP APTN Reuters AAP CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST Australian Eastern Standard Time which is hours ahead of UTC Greenwich Mean Time
The new accreditation system for childrens social workers being introduced by government risks destabilising and demoralising the workforce and could have profound implications for vulnerable children service leaders have warned.
Under government plans all child and family social workers will have to be assessed against the children and families knowledge and skills statements by at the latest.But the Association of Directors of Childrens Services ADCS said there are a number of outstanding issues with the proposals which unless adequately addressed could have a negative impact on the profession.These include whether accreditation is voluntary or mandatory whether the system is introduced at pace or is phased in over time and the implications of social workers failing the assessment process.If even per cent of social workers fail the assessment processes the implications for the sector but more importantly the implications for vulnerable children young people and their families are profound a position statement drafted by the ADCS states.ADCS believes that the policy and implementation issues must be addressed together otherwise there is a serious risk that this reform agenda will unintentionally destabilise and demoralise the workforce.The ADCS said the accreditation system for the child and family practitioner status and the practice supervisor status to be made mandatory.Voluntary implementation risks destabilising a fragile workforce the statement says. Moreover it would be inappropriate for Ofsted to be used as a means of driving voluntary adoption of assessment and accreditation for example by including any judgments in future inspection frameworks about the numbers of accredited social workers in a local authority or by making a judgment about local authority employers based on proportions of social workers who fail the accreditation.It also raises concerns about the potential creation of a second class social work profession with those that fail to become accredited in statutory child and family social work remaining registered and moving into nonstatutory child and family social work such as early help or adult social work becoming perceived as the Cinderella service for those who fail to become accredited. This is not only a concern about how the social work profession as a whole is perceived but it is a concern that the link between adult and childrens social work is broken the statement says.ADCS firmly believes that in order to address the needs of vulnerable children and young people in an holistic and sustainable way a systemic approach is required that includes breaking the cycle of adult disadvantage much of which is driven by the impacts of alcohol or drug dependency or poor mental health on adults ability to parent their children.Accreditation will involve a fourstage process. After a worker has received endorsement from their employer they will take an online multiple choice knowledge test. Then there will be a simulated activity test in which candidates are gradually given more information about a case and are asked questions along the way followed by a role play using actors where practice is observed.Last week appearing before the education select committee chief social worker for children Isabelle Trowler revealed that social workers who fail new accreditation tests will not lose their registration.However she did add that the type of work that social workers who fail the test are allowed to conduct is likely to be limited.Concerns have previously been raised that the introduction of a national accreditation scheme for childrens social workers could see practitioners leave the profession and destabilise the workforce.A consultation on the implementation of the accreditation system is due to be launched in the coming months.
MA Education . Published by MA Education Limited St Judes Church Dulwich Road Herne Hill London SE PB a company registered in England and Wales no. . MA Education is part of the Mark Allen Group.
JEDDAH Saudi Arabia Reuters Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife. 
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems. 
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants. 
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens. 
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals. 
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan. 
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education. 
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up. 
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported. 
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving. 
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter. 
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s. 
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s. 
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual. 
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist. 
BEIJING Reuters China released a raft of detailed reform plans on Friday promising sweeping changes to the economy and the countrys social fabric as it seeks to unleash new sources of growth after three decades of breakneck expansion show signs of slowing.
Following are key points from the document released by the official Xinhua news agency.
We will speed up the reform of the household registration hukou system completely lift registration restrictions in towns and small cities gradually relax restrictions in medium sized cities and decide the criteria for settling in large cities in a reasonable way. Strictly control the population of megacities.
We will steadily roll out basic urban social services to all longterm residents and allow rural residents who switch to a city registration to become completely integrated within the housing and social security system.
We will strictly rationalise the supply and use of land for construction to improve the efficiency of land use in cities.
We will promote a pricing mechanism that is mainly decided by the market. We should hand over prices that can be set by market forces to the market. The government should not make inappropriate interventions.
We will push forward price reforms in sectors including water oil natural gas power transportation and telecommunications.
Governmentset prices will be mainly applied to key public utilities and public services. Such pricing must be transparent and monitored by the public.
We will improve pricing mechanisms for agricultural products and emphasize the markets role in deciding prices.
We will improve the marketbased yuan exchange rate formation mechanism and speed up the marketisation of interest rates. We will increase the level of convertibility in crossborder capital and banking transactions
We will establish a robust and prudent overall management framework for foreign debt and capital flows and speed up the implementation of renminbi capital account convertability.
Crossshareholding and fusion of various types of capital including stateowned capital collectivelyowned capital and private capital is an important part of the basic economic system.
We will allow non stateowned capital to purchase shares in projects invested by stateowned capital.
We will improve our management systems for stateowned assets and improve supervision of stateowned assets mainly via capital management.
State capital should serve the states strategic objectives in key areas such as public services developing important and forwardlooking strategic industries protecting the environment supporting scientific and technological development and ensuring state security.
We will transfer some state assets to the social security fund and raise the proportion of dividends paid by state assets to the public to percent by to be used for social security and improving peoples livelihoods.
In monopoly industries where stateowned assets continue to hold shares and operate we will conduct reforms including separating government functions from enterprise and capital management and granting franchise operations and will conduct government supervision.
We will push forward the marketoriented allocation of public resources and further eliminate administrative monopolies. We will push forward disclosure of important information by SOEs. Beijing newsroom
His pictures of the squalid lives of New Yorks immigrants made him the most famous photographer of his day and were credited with bringing reforms which offered some hope to the booming citys poorest residents.
Jacob A Riis documented the overflowing tenements of New Yorks Lower East Side more than years ago shining a spotlight on how the wave of immigrants from Europe were living in a city which at the same time was the worlds economic powerhouse.
He became a friend of the young rising political star Theodore Roosevelt who called him New Yorks most useful citizen. But some modern historians claim his photographs were actually freak show pictures which played to stereotypes about immigrants.
Now the Danishborn photographers work is to be highlighted in a new exhibition in New York which will then travel to Washington DC.
A new exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York shows the work of Jacob A Riis who documented the lives of immigrants in New York City tenements at the turn of the last century. Above a room where residents paid five cents for a spot to sleep on the floor
Riis who once suffered under he extreme poverty he later documented worked as a police reporter for New York papers and would write about the slums he photographed. Above a picture calledUnder the Dump at West th Street.
The journalist and photographer was celebrated in his own time though has since been criticized for promoting stereotypical views of different ethnicities. Above three children curled up together on a metal grate during a New York winter
New Yorks Mulberry street left in a photograph called Bandits Roost was once part of the citys most notorious slum neighborhoods. It is now popular with tourists and is home to a cluster of Italian restaurants
The exhibition hopes to show attendees the photographers career in full which also included newspaper articles and books on the same themes of urban poverty.
Bonnie Yochelson who is curating the MCNY exhibition previously wrote a book about Riis who struck out for America in the late s after the girl he loved rejected his marriage proposal.
He originally worked as a carpenter before losing his job during tough financial times.
Riiss photography eventually led turn of the century politicians such as Theodore Roosevelt to crack down on the worst lodging house offenders. Above newsboys at a lodging house clean their faces
The Dane was credited with bringing light to social problems that many middle class Americans had not seen before. Above a photograph entitled Peddler Who Slept in the Cellar of Ludlow Street
Riis was particularly worried about the children growing up in slum conditions and blamed the violent environment they lived in for possible bad behavior. Above a photograph called Scene on the Mott Street Barracks
For a time he experienced the extreme poverty he would later document for others. His photographs taken using a tripod camera and articles in nowdeparted newspapers such as the New York Tribune.
Yochelson told NPRthat his most famous book How the Other Half Lives went to immigrant neighborhoods but accused him of being guilty of perpetrating a freak show.
Come see the colorful Italians and the mystifying Chinese Yochelson said of his attitudes.
Despite his alleged biases not a problem which was raised at the time Riiss magnesium powder flash photography is credited with bringing light both figuratively and literally to the desperate situations he saw.
Waves of antiimmigrant sentiment also pulsated through the United States but the journalists work soon gained powerful supporters.
The photographer also looked at the places of work of the immigrant communities such as the above Bohemian cigarmakers. His work would later be followed up by fellow muckraker Upton Sinclair who exposed conditions in the meatpacking industry
Riis used new photography techniques that incorporated magnesium powder to create a large flash. But photography was still a long way from where it is today and the film needed so much time to be properly exposed that movements like this girls hand would be picked up
The immigrants work later gathered powerful supporters such as future president Theodore Roosevelt. Above a picture taken at a Lower East Side sweatshop on Ludlow Street
Riis was later accompanied on his journeys into the slums by Theodore Roosevelt then on the New York Board of Police Commissioners.
The future president who would close the worst lodging house offenders became friends with the Dane and said that he was New Yorks most useful citizen.
Riiss work would set the stage for later muckrakers such as The Jungle author Upton Sinclair.
Beyond efforts at reform the journalist also worked with philanthropists in an effort to assure that any moral citizen had a chance to work for a better life attributing bad behavior to the environment where people were raised.
He later married his Danish sweetheart after her first husband died and brought her to America before his death in .
The upcoming exhibition on his work which opens on October will travel to Washington DC and Denmark after its stay in New York.
Above portraits of Little Katie from the West nd Street Industrial School and an ancient women lodger in Eldridge St from a series about police station lodgers
Though he supported government reforms to housing conditions he also worked with philanthropists to help assuage the damages of poverty. Above a photograph called The Board of Election Inspectors in the Beach Street School
After years of documenting slum life Roosevelt once called Riis New Yorks most useful citizen.Above a photo of a childrens playground
Riis later married his childhood sweetheart brought her to America and died in . Above a photo of him taken in 
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
The new law will remove restrictions on cigarettes drugs and alcohol as well as provide tax incentives for seniors who bungee jump off of cliffs.
fatareforms.org is very popular in Facebook and Twitter.It has twitter followers. Furthermore its facebook page has likes.
This CoolSocial report was updated on Nov you can refresh this analysis whenever you want.
Fatareforms.org scored Social Media Impact. Social Media Impact score is a measure of how much a site is popular on social networks. 
A Facebook page link can be found in the homepage or in the robots.txt file. The total number of people who like website Facebook page. Facebook Timeline is the new layout of Facebook pages. The description of the Facebook page describes website and its services to the social media users. The URL of the found Facebook page. The type of Facebook page. The total number of people who tagged or talked about website Facebook page in the last days.
A Twitter account link can be found in the homepage or in the robots.txt file. The date of Twitter account creation. Total number of people who added this Twitter account to their lists. Where site or its webmaster resides. The URL of the found Twitter account page. Total number of Tweets. It measures how much websites talk to its social media audience. Total number of Followers. It measures how big is the social media audience. The description of the Twitter account describes website and its services to the social media users.
The date fatareforms.org was registered for the first time. The next date fatareforms.org will expire. The owner usually renews every year its domain but some prefer buying more than a year only. The registar is the authority where fatareforms.org is registered. Server location specifies where it is physically. Domain age is a measure of how much a site is old. Older sites have normally more importance and are more trustworthy than young ones. The IP of a server identifies it. It can be unique or shared between multiple sites.
Reforms of funding for elderly care may not be completed until reports suggest.
Andrew Dilnot the economist whose report into social care earlier this year recommended a series of reforms to protect pensioners from having to sell their homes to pay for care in later life said such a delay would be unacceptable if true.
His recommendations were that individuals should take out private insurance to cover the first of any nursing or care home costs they might incur in old age costs should be capped and care bills over the limit should be paid by the state.
However it is proving difficult for the Treasury to source the extra .bn a year the scheme would require reports suggest and the reform of social care funding may not even feature in the white paper due in the spring according to the Daily Mail newspaper.
Health Secretary Andrew Lansley said the Government was looking at a whole range of options including the possibility of a higher tax on the elderly to fund their care and acknowledged that it could take to years before some of the key parts of the reforms will come into effect.
Thanh Nien Newspaper conferred with stclass Labor OrderAdvertise with usAbout us
JEDDAH Saudi Arabia Reuters Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife. 
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems. 
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants. 
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens. 
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals. 
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan. 
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education. 
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up. 
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported. 
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving. 
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter. 
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s. 
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s. 
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual. 
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist. 
HANOI June Vietnam can improve migrants access to public services and employment by reducing the time and number of requirements needed for residents to obtain ho khau or permanent residency according to a new report by the World Bank and the Vietnam Academy of Social Sciences. The report also suggests to reduce differences in service and employment access between those with permanent and temporary registration status.
The report drawing on data from the Household Registration Survey and qualitative research says at least . million people in the five surveyed provinces in Vietnam lack ho khau including percent of the population in Ho Chi Minh City and percent in Hanoi. The majority of them work in the private sector especially in manufacturing and for foreign firms. They have limited access to public schools buying health insurance or even registering motorcycles.
This study shows that the ho khau system has created inequality of opportunity for Vietnamese citizens said Achim Fock the World Banks Acting Country Director for Vietnam. Further reforms could ensure that migrants have the same access to schools health care and employment in the public sector as everyone else. That will encourage people to move to cities and support Vietnams economic growth and structural transformation.
The ho khau system began years ago as an instrument of public security economic planning and control of migration. Citizens have mixed views of the existing ho khau system and a large majority says the system should be relaxed because it limits the rights of migrants and induces corruption.
The Ho Khau registration system is no longer relevant for managing and controlling the Vietnamese society which has been undergoing drastic changes toward Doi Moi and international integration said Dang Nguyen Anh Vice President of the Vietnam Academy of Social Sciences. The system should be replaced by a more scientific and modern tool to make peoples lives easier and inclusive. 
JEDDAH Saudi Arabia Reuters Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife. 
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems. 
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants. 
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens. 
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals. 
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan. 
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education. 
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up. 
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported. 
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving. 
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter. 
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s. 
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s. 
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual. 
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist. 
Protesters put up tent encampents in Israels cities in the past two months and have been holding demonstrations almost every week calling for cheaper housing and other economic reforms. They have been goaded on by the press and have received support from the New Israel Fund. Some nationalists suspect that the protest is a leftist ploy to destabilize the government. 
MANILA PHILIPPINES ADB will help the provincial government of Northwest Frontier Province Pakistan prepare a package of reforms to make devolved social services more effective efficient equitable and sustainable through a technical assistance TA grant approved for US.
The grant from ADBs Japan Special Fund financed by the Government of Japan will plan a program of reforms for the province that targets the poor and is provincewide demand driven and performance based.
Under the ensuing project all districts will be assisted for about three to four years with an emphasis on providing cost effective services that will benefit the widest range of people in particular the poor and women. The TA work will involve situation analysis reform recommendations and program design ahead of the project.
Northwest Frontier Province is the second poorest of Pakistans four provinces. During of the provinces population was living below the poverty line while the literacy rate was at a low and marked by gender disparities. Male literacy stands at about while the female rate is only .
Meanwhile the child mortality rate stands at per and the maternal mortality ratio is high at per . Access to piped water for domestic use in urban areas is but only in rural areas while less than one quarter of the population has access to a piped water supply.
Services including education health and water supply were devolved to local governments in but the pace of devolution in the province has been slow with a sometimes confusing and inconsistent allocation of roles and responsibilities between the different levels of local governments.
The capacity of local government officials to fulfill their responsibilities in terms of planning implementation and monitoring is limited.
Although devolution presents the chance to improve substandard social services the process poses many challenges in the face of limited local capacity local political priorities and financing constraints says Leah Gutierrez an ADB Senior Social Sectors Specialist.
Priorities will be to improve links between the provincial government and local governments to manage reforms build greater links with communities streamline administration and put in place mechanisms for sustainable financing and efficient spending.
The TA will build on lessons learned from and will be coordinated with previous and ongoing social sector investments funded by ADB and its development partners including ADBs Decentralized Support Program in the province the Sindh Devolved Social Services Program and the Punjab Devolved Social Services Program.
The Government of Pakistan will contribute in kind to the TAs total cost of . The provincial Planning and Development Department is the executing agency for the TA which will be undertaken over about one year to August .
Subscriber Services Subscribe to ADBs Newsletter eAlerts RSS feeds and mobile apps.
ADB encourages websites and blogs to link to its web pages. Articles may be republished without alteration with the attribution statement This article was first published by the Asian Development Bank www.adb.org and a clickable link back to adb.org.
The Finance minister Arun Jaitley in his statement in Rajya Sabha said that during about Rs. crores was spent on CSR activities. This number would only increase in the coming times with more companies beginning to report their CSR expenditure. CSR is no more just a buzzword it is slowly becoming a fullfledged strategy that governs or should govern a companys interactions with all of its stakeholder regulators potential customers and staff community suppliers and the civil society.
With such large expenditures being made towards CSR it becomes imperative that the projects are monitored and the outcomes are evaluated to ascertain whether the objective with which it was made mandatory is achieved. How do we make sure that the money we are spending on CSR is being well spent and that people for whom it is intended are benefitting from it is a sentiment echoed by many companies. There is likelihood of greater accountability that Companies will bring into the implementation of activities related to social development.
Rising awareness about the CSR legislation has led to stakeholders raising queries about the way the companies are spending this money and the compliance levels. There have been concerns about the monitoring and evaluation mechanism of such huge expenditures. A high level committee setup by the Government under the chairmanship of Shri Anil Baijal former secretary to Government of India to suggest measures for improved monitoring of CSR activities has recommended against the involvement of Government in monitoring and the onus lies solely on the CSR committee of the companies. This puts additional responsibility on the CSR Committee and the Board members to make sure good programmes are designed and managed well.
A prerequisite for an effective monitoring mechanism is a well thought out CSR strategy and implementation plan defining the inputs and expected outputs and outcomes of the intended activities. A comprehensive plan for social development would not only yield the desired results from the CSR activities it would also lead to ease of operation for the corporates who till now have been engaged primarily in business related activities.
A stringent monitoring mechanism not only helps to gauge and review the progress it also helps to identify gaps if. Evaluating the projects can help assess whether the desired outcome and impact has been achieved and the benefit is indeed reaching the intended beneficiaries. With a robust monitoring mechanism in place the companies would be better equipped to plan their programmes and also engage with multiple stakeholders who have interest in their CSR activities. Needless to say monitoring should be done to assess the progress made on the programme side as well as on the financial utilisations.
Most programmes are carried out with the support of NGOs who have experience of working on the ground. This association can be a rich one where each partner adds value to the entire process. As an example effective monitoring is possible by creating a mechanism to collect relevant data that can be monitored periodically as well as by listening to the voices of beneficiaries to see whether the desired outcomes have been achieved. Whereas the NGOs can help by making use of participatory processes some other resource agencies can develop their capacities to develop log frames. Years of working in the social development sector has led to the development of excellent tools which should be used to monitor programmes. Participatory research has several benefits. In addition to collecting the required data it can be an empowering process for the beneficiaries where they get to discuss and analyse their problems prioritize these and also suggest possible solutions.
On the other hand the Companies can also bring in efficient mechanisms for monitoring. As companies continue to expand their CSR projects geographically and across themes technology would play a significant role in planning and monitoring and breaking the geographical barriers. It would serve as an economically viable solution. Companies and their CSR committees can review real time data aggregated in a single location with technology enabled monitoring tools which would help in decisionmaking and necessary course corrections. In this era where technology has revolutionised the way companies do business the role it can play in the way they undertake social development cannot be undermined especially where the scale of programmes is large. However it must also be understood that all geographies do not have the infrastructure required to use technology not to mention the problem of connectivity even in those areas where infrastructure is available. Besides capacity development is needed for the staff to make use of technology. So while technology is an enabler it should be used after assessing all these factors.
From our experience of working and interacting with a number of Foundations one can say that monitoring mechanisms need to be strengthened. The focus of monitoring is largely on the outputs. Unless it moves to assessment of outcomes and impact it creates the usefulness of the programmes in changing the lives of people would remain uncertain. Similarly many NGOs give greater emphasis to planning and executing activities on the ground conducting participatory research to understand the problems and empowering people rather than monitoring the programme. While they have very good experience of working with people monitoring of these programmes is often not very robust and is considered an additional responsibility. A close partnership between the two where there is sharing of strengths can help in making monitoring more effective.
The owner of this website www.socialeurope.eu has banned your access based on your browsers signature beaeadddua.
FILE In this April file photo members of the Cuban Communist Party attend the th Congress in Havana Cuba when President Raul Castro was named first secretary of Cubas Communist Party with his aging brother Fidel not included in the leadership for the first time since the partys creation years ago. Days after President Barack Obamas historic visit to Cuba in March party leaders are under highly unusual public criticism from their own ranks for imposing new levels of secrecy about the future of social and economic reforms. AP PhotoJavier Galeano File
HAVANA AP Days after President Barack Obamas historic visit the leaders of Cubas Communist Party are under highly unusual public criticism from their own ranks for imposing new levels of secrecy on the future of social and economic reforms.
After months of simmering discontent complaints among party members have become so heated that its official newspaper Granma addressed them in a lengthy frontpage article Monday saying the public dissatisfaction is a sign of the democracy and public participation that are intrinsic characteristics of the socialism that were constructing.
The article did little to calm many party members some of whom are calling for a Communist Party congress next month to be postponed to allow public debate about the governments plans to continue marketoriented reforms for Cubas centrally controlled economy.
The base of the party is angry and rightly so party member and noted intellectual Esteban Morales wrote in a blog post published before Obamas visit. Weve gone backward in terms of democracy in the party because weve forgotten about the base those who are fighting and confronting our problems on a daily basis.
Across the country Cubas ruling party is facing stiff challenges as it tries to govern an increasingly cynical and disenchanted population.
Struggling to feed their families with state salaries around a month many ordinary Cubans see their government as infuriatingly inefficient and unresponsive to the needs of average people. The open anger among prominent party members in the middle of sweeping socioeconomic reforms and normalization with the United States hints at a deeper crisis of credibility for the party that has controlled virtually every aspect of public life in Cuba for more than a half century.
The article in Granma appeared less than a week after Obama won an enthusiastic response from many ordinary Cubans by calling for both an end to Cold War hostility and for more political and economic freedom on the island. The unsigned article shared the front page with Fidel Castros sharply worded response to Obama in which the yearold father of Cubas socialist system said My modest suggestion is that he reflect and doesnt try to develop theories about Cuban politics.
Many Cubans are skeptical of freemarket capitalism wary of American power and cannot envision a society without the free health care and education put in place by the revolution. Party member Francisco Rodrguez a gay activist and journalist for a state newspaper said Obamas nationally televised speech in Old Havana his news conference with yearold President Raul Castro and a presidential forum with Cuban entrepreneurs represented a sort of capitalist evangelizing that many party members dislike.
Rodrguez told The Associated Press that Obamas wellreceived addresses to the Cuban people had nonetheless increased pressure on the member Communist Party to forge a more unified and credible vision of the future.
Obamas visit requires us going forward to work on debating and defending our social consensus about the revolution Rodrguez said.
While Cubas nonelected leaders maintain tight control of the party and the broader system the last party congress in was preceded by months of vigorous debate at party meetings about detailed documents laying out reforms that have shrunk the state bureaucracy and allowed a half million Cubans to start work in the private sector.
In the runup to the party congress scheduled to begin April no documents have been made public no debate has taken place and many of the partys bestknown members remain in the dark about the next phase of Cubas reforms.
My dissatisfaction is rooted in the lack of discussion of the central documents secret to this day as much among the organizations of the party base as the rest of the population Rodrguez wrote in an open letter Sunday to Ral Castro who is also the top Communist Party leader.
Under Castros guidance the party congress helped loosen state control of Cubans economic options and some personal freedoms moving the country toward more selfemployment greater freedom to travel and greater ability to sell personal cars and real estate. The Granma article argued that the months of debate before the approval of those reforms made a new round of public discussion unnecessary. It also acknowledged that only percent of the reforms had been completed as planned.
The April party congress will allow us to define with greater precision the path that we must follow in order for our nation sovereign and truly independent since Jan. to construct a prosperous and sustainable socialism the article said.
Rodrguez who works closely with Castros daughter Mariela the director of the national Center for Sexual Education said the Granma piece was unsatisfactory. He called for the Seventh Party Congress to be delayed saying many fellow party members share his point of view.
In the days after the Granma article appeared about two dozen people many identifying themselves as party members posted lengthy comments on the papers governmentmoderated website that criticized the article and the secrecy surrounding the upcoming party congress which is widely seen as helping mark the transition of power from the aging men who led Cubas revolution to a younger generation.
It is one of the last congresses directed by the historic generation wrote one poster identifying himself as Leandro. This is I think a bad precedent for future leaders who will feel like they have the right to have party congresses without popular participation.
Pope Francis arrives in Cuba to heal year rift with Russian Orthodox Church
This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed. FOX News Network LLC. All rights reserved.
Reforms of funding for elderly care may not be completed until reports suggest.
Andrew Dilnot the economist whose report into social care earlier this year recommended a series of reforms to protect pensioners from having to sell their homes to pay for care in later life said such a delay would be unacceptable if true.
His recommendations were that individuals should take out private insurance to cover the first of any nursing or care home costs they might incur in old age costs should be capped and care bills over the limit should be paid by the state.
However it is proving difficult for the Treasury to source the extra .bn a year the scheme would require reports suggest and the reform of social care funding may not even feature in the white paper due in the spring according to the Daily Mail newspaper.
Health Secretary Andrew Lansley said the Government was looking at a whole range of options including the possibility of a higher tax on the elderly to fund their care and acknowledged that it could take to years before some of the key parts of the reforms will come into effect.
JEDDAH Saudi Arabia Reuters Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife. 
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems. 
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants. 
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens. 
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals. 
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan. 
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education. 
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up. 
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported. 
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving. 
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter. 
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s. 
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s. 
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual. 
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist. 
Evan Coole a Dalhousie Legal Aid employee said the Department of Community Services is being secretive about its plans. CBC News 
The Department of Community Services is is working on reformingthe social assistance programin what its calling the biggest undertaking for the department in over years but some who work with the poor are worried.
When youre talking about people on income assistance who the government doesnt usually put on the top of the list to help then its very worrisome said Fiona Traynor with Dal Legal Aid.
Im very concerned about the proposed changes mainly because we dont know what they are.
Evan Coole another Dal legal aid employee says the department is being secretive about its plan.
They are not making any attempts that we can see to engage people who are on social assistance or community organizations that service people on social assistance to make these decisions he said.
The changes when they come will result in widespread reform.The department says it wants to modernizesocial assistance programs to ensure its meeting the needs of Nova Scotians.
The department did makes some cuts to this years budget and Traynor worries reform means more cuts.She also worries about the message the minister is sending with her comments about people and the length of time they remain on assistance.
I heard a lot of stigmatizing and I hear a lot of encouraging the general public to believe that people on income assistance dont deserve what they get.
Traynor says theres already a stigma attached to people who receive assistance even though a single person on assistance gets only for shelter and utilities and for food clothing and other necessities.
At Dalhousie University Judy MacDonald the interim director in the School of Social Worksaidits imperative those who use the system be consulted.
Its the government making decisions. Its not the government in consultation.Theyre not talking to people with disabilities theyre not talking to single moms on assistance theyre not talking to people that know what its like to live day by day in poverty MacDonald said.
She is especially concerned about disabled people on assistance who have added challenges and need help to become educated.
People on assistance know what the issues are people who serve the poor know what the issues areand if the government is sincere in wanting to build a better system they should be talking to us Coolesaid.
Errington said the goal of the restructuring is simpler administration and sustainability and social inclusion and selfsufficiency for our clients.
To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations first and last names will appear with each submission to CBCRadioCanadas online communities except in children and youthoriented communities. Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted.
By submitting a comment you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time.
Black Lives Matter got attention but did its Pride tactics hurt or help its cause
Mrida nd June Venezuelanalysis.com Venezuelan president Nicolas Maduro has announced a series of reforms to the system of staterun social programs known as missions in order to improve their reach and performance.
Key initiatives include unifying the missions administration merging programs with similar aims and beneficiaries and passing a law to ingrain the mission system into the nations legal framework.
Maduro said the reforms would be carried out this coming month to unify the missions into an integrated national welfare system.
Im going to declare June the month of the National System of Missions and Great Missions. The whole month is going to be dedicated to launching relaunching and widening the spectrum of benefits for the Venezuelan people through the missions he said last week on his radio program Contact with Maduro.
The first missions were launched by former president Hugo Chavez in as programs funded by oil income and aimed at directly addressing the various social needs of the population. They sought to guarantee free medical attention widen access to free education and eliminate hunger and illiteracy.
Later programs have been added to the system such as public housing construction social welfare payments employment and cultural programs anticrime strategies and an animal welfare scheme. A total of thirty seven missions are currently in operation.
Critics have either labeled the missions as populist and designed to buy the political support of the poor or as illthought out largesse in public spending. Supporters meanwhile point out that both government supporters and opponents benefit from the missions and that the programs have improved the quality of life of the nations majority.
Nevertheless the missions popularity has meant that the conservative opposition now rarely dare to criticise the programs publicly. Further the missions have been hailed as one factor behind the reduction in household poverty which fell from in to currently. The country has also been praised by various United Nations organisations for achieving several of the Millennium Development Goals early.
President Maduro announced last week that the missions will now be overseen by a unified Administration and Direction System in order to reduce bureaucracy and corruption. The system will also help families find out what missions they are eligible to benefit from.
As part of this change missions with similar aims and beneficiaries will be merged also with the aim of increasing efficiency. For example all programs focused on child and family wellbeing will be fused into a new program called Homes of the Nation.
The Venezuelan president argued that the mission system was at the heart of the countrys development model. As such in addition to ending poverty and misery he said that overall aims of the mission system were the construction and generation of a new socialist model to convert Venezuelan into a productive economic power and to contribute to peace and life.
The missions and great missions acquire the character of building a socialist societyI convoke all mission members to go from simple beneficiaries to protagonists in the construction of socialism Maduro exhorted to listeners.
Finally Maduro announced that he will use presidential powers to pass a law to grant greater legal protection to the mission system. The law will have organic status meaning that it will enjoy the same legal power as the national constitution and can only be reformed or annulled by a twothirds majority in the National Assembly.
The president argued this was necessary because The bourgeoisie want to torpedo the mission system in any given moment.
This work is licensed under a Attribution Noncommercial No Derivatives Creative Commons license
Venezuelan president Nicolas Maduro has announced a series of reforms to the states social programs known as missions in order to improve their reach and performance. AVN
Bolivarian ProjectCivil SocietyEconomyEnvironmentGender and SexualityIndigenous AfroVenezuelansInternationalLaborLand ReformLaw and JusticeMedia WatchMilitaryOil and GasOppositionParticipationPoliticsSocial ProgramsVenezuelan Media
Bolivarian ProjectCivil SocietyEconomyEnvironmentGender and SexualityIndigenous AfroVenezuelansInternationalLaborLand ReformLaw and JusticeMedia WatchMilitaryOil and GasOppositionParticipationPoliticsSocial ProgramsVenezuelan Media
Venezuelanalysis.com is an independent website produced by individuals who are dedicated to disseminating news and analysis about the current political situation in Venezuela. read more
Produced by Commons Library Lords Library and Parliamentary Office Science and Technology
Celebrating people who have made Parliament a positive inclusive working environment
Contact your MP or a Member of the House of Lords about an issue that matters to you
Take a tour of Parliament and enjoy a delicious afternoon tea by the River Thames
The Education Committee takes evidence from academics charity and children services representatives as part of its inquiry into social work reform.
Follow the progress of the inquiry and read the latest evidence published by the Committee.
The owner of this website www.thenews.coop has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebcadaua.
LONDON A senior British lawmaker says Prime Minister David Cameron will use the fallout from Englands riots to push through social reforms. 
Iain Duncan Smith who is in charge of welfare and employment policy as Work and Pensions Secretary said that four nights of looting and violence last week had served as a warning to the government. 
In an interview with weekly The Spectator magazine released Thursday Smith said the unrest across London and other major English cities would prove a pivotal moment in Camerons leadership. 
Cameron who took office in May has made it clear that this now is his big focus Duncan Smith was quoted as saying. 
Home Secretary Theresa May and Duncan Smith will report to Parliament in October will new plans to tackle gangrelated violence in Britain. 
Britains Prime Minister David Cameron speaks at a youth center in Witney his Parliamentary district in southern England Monday Aug. . AP Alastair Grant
The project EUCHINA Social Protection Reform Component seeksoneEuropean Expert Senior Social Security Specialist in European Best Practicesto be based inBeijingand other locations in China as appropriate.
How to apply
The project EUCHINA Social Protection Reform Component seeksoneEuropean Expert Senior Social Security Specialist in European Best Practicesto be based inBeijingand other locations in China as appropriate.
How to apply
The overall scope of the SPRP project is to further developsocial equity and inclusiveness of economic development
The project EUCHINA Social Protection Reform Component seeksoneEuropean Expert Senior Social Security Specialist Integration of urban and rural social security systems Migrant workers portability and vesting of pension rightsto be based inBeijingand other locations in China as appropriate.
How to apply 
The project EUCHINA Social Protection Reform Component seeksoneEuropean Expert Senior Social Security Specialist in European Best Practices to be based inBeijingand attend the High Level Event on Social Assistance.
The project EUCHINA Social Protection Reform Component seeksoneEuropean Expert Senior Social Security Specialist in European Best Practices to be based inBeijing and attend the High Level Event on Social Assistance.
The project EUCHINA Social Protection Reform Component seeksoneEuropean Expert Senior Social Security Specialist in European Best Practices to be based in Beijingand other locations in China as appropriate.
The project EUCHINA Social Protection Reform Component seeksoneEuropean Expert Senior Social Security Specialist in European Best Practices to be based in Beijingand other locations in China as appropriate
There was in Beijing on April the st Project Advisory Committee PAC meeting of EUChina Social Protection Reform Project SPRP. A Delegation of the European Union went to China.
Since the very beginning Formez has had a crucial role in attaining the assignment to develop the EUChina Social Protection Reform Project by the consortium led by INPS and consisting of other members.
In accepting the invitation received by the former Minister of the Public Administration to submit an Expression of Interest to participate in supporting the Chinese government in the study of the reform of the Chinese social system in November Formez held a meeting at the Ministry in.
The owner of this website www.dailynewsegypt.com has banned your access based on your browsers signature bebbadcua.
A key piece of the budget deal and one of its costliest provisions staves off a percent premium hike that would have hit million Medicare Part B enrollees next year. That fix which is the result of a glitch in federal benefits law is estimated to cost nearly billion.
The deal would also prevent a percent acrosstheboard cut in Social Security disability benefits for million people next year which was the result of a quickly dryingup trust fund.
We have extended the solvency of Social Security Disability Insurance and protected millions of seniors from a significant increase in their Medicare Part B premiums and deductibles next year House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi DCalif. wrote in a statement praising the deal Tuesday morning.
In addition to averting those increases the deal would enact a series of changes to both the disability and Medicare programs some of which could be tough for Democrats to stomach.
Several of Pelosis top allies including Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra Calif. have made it clear over the last week that they would oppose any deal that decreased benefits.
. The White House and GOP have also struck a major deal on an ObamaCare provision that requires large employers to automatically enroll new employees in health plans and rollover current employees.
That measure which has been twice delayed has not yet gone into effect. It has already passed the House as part of its budget reconciliation measure earlier this month. That change alone was expected to save about billion through according to the Congressional Budget Office.
In another win for Democrats the budget deal incorporates a costsaving strategy for Medicaid in which generic drugmakers are required to pay additional rebates to state Medicaid programs when their drug costs increase faster than inflation.
The idea has been pushed by Sen. Bernie Sanders IVt. who is running for the Democratric presidential nomination and Rep. Elijah Cummings DMd. who say it would help save Medicaid about million over years.
. The GOP had particularly pushed for reforms to Social Security Disability Insurance SSDI which would see stronger penalties for those charged with fraud and abuse stronger oversight and reporting requirements.
The disability trust fund is facing a major budget shortfall early in . This summers grim Social Security trustees report found that the fund would be depleted by the fourth quarter of meaning that the government could only pay out about percent of whats owed to beneficiaries.
Only because we have crazy people controlling the budget. Dealing with a budget shortfall by making disability approval a longer harder process for eligible citizens is not exactly heartwarming.
Did you hear Chelsea Manning make a patriotic defense from that jail cell Did they televise the trial so we could all hear the patriotic defense You are full of it. Snowden is a fugitive and Clinton is eating at stars because there are systems of justice in this country. Actually there are if you include summary executions of black men by the police.
Clearly to people like you it is totally fine to hate ppl who dont agree with you. Youve done nothing but try to be rude and insulting with me from jump because I dont agree with you and I dont fall in line with ur partisanship. I completely expect some other comment from you on one of my comments here calling me stupid or insinuating im intellectually inferior to you vs. just disagreeing with what im saying well have at it just proves my point.
Reasonable Republicans become Democrats. Warren for example left the Republican party in the s.
well exactly who did morning joke get to come in and question their judgement on having alberto Gonzales on .now that Enquierin minds wanna know
We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookie Policies to find out more.
New legislation encouraging the adoption of children in care will be announced in the Queens Speech on Wednesday
David Cameron has announced that the Government will bring in new laws to encourage the adoption of children in care.
Writing in the Sunday Times the Prime Minister said vulnerable children had been let down by society and promised zero tolerance ofstate failure around social care.
The proposed legislation will encourage the permanent adoption of children by foster carers even if that means ignoring family connections.
These are not someone elses children they are all of ours so every part of society should be stepping up to help care leavers get a shot at building a decent life.
Mr Cameron wrote that he was unashamedly proadoption andstressed the need forchildren to be given a stable home.
We will legislate to tip the balance in favour of permanent adoption where that is the right thing for the child even when that means overriding family ties he said.
This is a vital move that will mean much greater importance is attached to the longterm stability and better outcomes that it can offer.
Courts and social workers have begun to favour less stable placements with distant relatives such as greataunts and uncles rather than adoption by new families that would produce more permanent solutions and better outcomes.
As a result of that policy adoption numbers hadalmost halved over the past two years Mr Cameron said.
In March it was announced that children taken into care would be fasttracked into permanent adoption away from their natural parents if it was deemed to be in the childs best interest.
Currently it can take up to months for children to be in care to be adopted a time scale ministers admit is too long.
The new legislation will also introduce a careleavers covenant which will mean more personalised help for young people at the end of their time in state care such as providing a mentor until they are .
Reforms will also set new demanding standards for all child and family social workers to meet by with a new regulator introduced to oversee the care system.
According to government statistics a third of people who have been in care become homeless in the two years immediately after they leave.
Almost half of children and young people in care are said to have a diagnosable mental health disorder compared with around one in children who are not.
This will help ensure that the system recognises the long lasting impact of traumatic experiences and help towards giving children in care the future they deserve.
The aged care system in Australia is being reformed to ensure it is the best possible system now and into the future.
Aged care reforms are being progressively implemented in three phases over years so our aged care system can be sustainable and affordable and be the best possible system for all Australians.
Improvements have already been implemented to Australias aged care system. Read about the improvements so far including changes to the Commonwealth Home Support Programme Home Care Packages expansion of programs new supplements and more.
The Home Care Packages Programme was introduced in to replace the Community Packaged Care Programme. From July all Home Care Packages are delivered on a consumer directed care basis.
In the Budget the Australian Government announced significant changes to further improve the way home care services are delivered to older people.
Answers to questions about the aged care reforms including changes to fee arrangements accommodation deposits and payments higher accommodation supplement annual and lifetime caps and methods of payments and contracts.
The Aged Care Sector Committee has been established to provide advice to government on aged care policy development and implementation and to guide the future reform of the aged care system.
The Aged Care Financing Authority ACFA provides transparent independent advice to government on funding and financing issues in aged care. It is informed by consultation with consumers and the aged care and finance sectors.
The surplus has been squandered by last years tax cuts they argue therefore the administrations objective of fixing Social Security must be put on hold. Stated a bit differently if the president would only raise taxes we could address Social Securitys financial problems forthwith. This political logic attempts to put the president into a box of his own making. 
Others think that reform should not wait because the sooner it happens the less expensive it will be. In their recent Annual Report the Trustees of the Social Security system argued that Social Security deficits projected for the longer run should be addressed in a timely way to allow for a gradual phasing in of any necessary changes and to provide advance notice so that workers can adjust their plans to take account of those changes. The sooner adjustments are made the smaller and less abrupt they will have to be. 
The argument to postpone reform because of the current budget deficit is entertaining theater in which Washingtons thespians of all ideological persuasions can play their assigned roles. But it has very little to do with the substance of Social Securitys financial challenges. 
Given Social Securitys payasyougo financing it is axiomatic that promised benefits can be delivered only if taxes are continuously raised. Indeed as the relative number of workers declined over the last five decades the maximum payroll tax increased about percent even after adjusting for inflation. Without reform the future holds the same. 
Tax increases or benefit cuts for that matter approach the Social Security financial challenge in strictly cash flow terms. Neither reverses increasing life expectancy or belowreplacement birth rates. Both are a financial patch. But as the relative number of workers falls tax increases ultimately hit a political wall. At some point people sense that their taxes provide them little security relative to what they could have by saving and investing a like amount of their resources in wealth producing assets. We may now be facing the wall. 
At this stage politicians look for alternative solutions. Invariably they move to where their constituents already are. In our case as has been true in so many other countries they begin to consider saving and investing in professionally managed diversified portfolios of stocks and bonds. They contemplate promoting substantive reform. 
Such reform takes time to complete. In fact it takes decades. And it may depending on its design require resources beyond the payroll tax. But if thoughtfully constructed the system will be funded and sound at the end of reform. Continuing to pay Social Securitys promised benefits solely through ever increasing payroll taxes requires even greater resources and the system is never stable. 
If reform is put off as opponents suggest it should be the demographic time clock still ticks. The window of opportunity slowly shuts. The ultimate costs rise. 
From this perspective whether the current budget is currently in surplus or deficit matters little. The cost of not reforming the system will not go away. The White House fully understands this. That is why President Bush is not deterred from arguing his case that we must address Social Securitys financial realities irrespective of whether we are fighting terrorism dealing with an economic downturn or facing a temporary budget deficit. He is absolutely correct. 
Opponents of reform actually see the logic of this argument as well. That is why over the past few years they have changed their position and accepted many although not all of the reformists points. 
In just seven years the conventional wisdom on how to deal with Social Securitys future has changed dramatically. Most students of the issue proponents and opponents of reform alike realize that time is working against us. They understand the Trustees admonition of the sooner the better. But it will take considerable political leadership to bring all parties to the table to keep Social Securitys promises. And as has been the case in other countries the leadership must come from the top.
George W. Bush campaigned for the presidency on Social Security reform. As he promised he would he established a commission to report to him on how best to strengthen the system. Now he has accumulated an extraordinary amount of political capital and he has the opportunity to aggressively spend it on Social Security reform one of our countrys most challenging domestic financial issues. The budget deficit should not stand in his way. 
William G. Shipman is Chairman of Carriage Oaks Partners LLC and cochair of the Cato InstituteProject on Social Security Privatization.
This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed. FOX News Network LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed minutes. Privacy Terms FAQ
The forthcoming Life Chances Strategy will set out a comprehensive plan for transforming the life chances of disadvantaged children.
The Neighbourhood Planning and Infrastructure Bill will pick up where the Homes and Planning Act left off. This Bill will reform planning and give local communities more power and control to shape their own area so that we build more houses
It will include measures to reform and speed up the planning process by minimising delays caused by precommencement planning conditions. A new statutory basis for the independent National Infrastructure Commission. Streamlined processes supporting neighbourhoods to come together to agree plans that will get home building under way.
A new Care Leavers Covenant underpinned by statutory duties will make sure local authorities set out clearly the entitlements for care leavers including housing jobs and healthcare.
Legislation will support the Governments ambition to deliver one million new homes whilst protecting those areas that we value most including the Green Belt. Drive more effective and efficient delivery of housing and infrastructure that local communities need and make the process clearer faster and fairer. Also included is a commitment to more traineeships.
Continued support by Whitehall in devolving powers and budgets and creating powerful new elected mayors who will give people in northern cities and towns a strong voice.
A transfer of up to bn to councils through allowing them to retain of the business rates they collect.
Legislation will improve coordination between the public and private sectors to tackle criminal financial behaviour.
This will help those from low incomes build up their savings. Workers in receipt of working tax credits or Universal Credit who save up to a month will receive a Government bonus of to a maximum of after two years.
These will be sold for housing developments see the Budget announcement made by George Osborne
For more details on this issue or how to receive your copy visit our new housing site.
The Finance minister Arun Jaitley in his statement in Rajya Sabha said that during about Rs. crores was spent on CSR activities. This number would only increase in the coming times with more companies beginning to report their CSR expenditure. CSR is no more just a buzzword it is slowly becoming a fullfledged strategy that governs or should govern a companys interactions with all of its stakeholder regulators potential customers and staff community suppliers and the civil society.
With such large expenditures being made towards CSR it becomes imperative that the projects are monitored and the outcomes are evaluated to ascertain whether the objective with which it was made mandatory is achieved. How do we make sure that the money we are spending on CSR is being well spent and that people for whom it is intended are benefitting from it is a sentiment echoed by many companies. There is likelihood of greater accountability that Companies will bring into the implementation of activities related to social development.
Rising awareness about the CSR legislation has led to stakeholders raising queries about the way the companies are spending this money and the compliance levels. There have been concerns about the monitoring and evaluation mechanism of such huge expenditures. A high level committee setup by the Government under the chairmanship of Shri Anil Baijal former secretary to Government of India to suggest measures for improved monitoring of CSR activities has recommended against the involvement of Government in monitoring and the onus lies solely on the CSR committee of the companies. This puts additional responsibility on the CSR Committee and the Board members to make sure good programmes are designed and managed well.
A prerequisite for an effective monitoring mechanism is a well thought out CSR strategy and implementation plan defining the inputs and expected outputs and outcomes of the intended activities. A comprehensive plan for social development would not only yield the desired results from the CSR activities it would also lead to ease of operation for the corporates who till now have been engaged primarily in business related activities.
A stringent monitoring mechanism not only helps to gauge and review the progress it also helps to identify gaps if. Evaluating the projects can help assess whether the desired outcome and impact has been achieved and the benefit is indeed reaching the intended beneficiaries. With a robust monitoring mechanism in place the companies would be better equipped to plan their programmes and also engage with multiple stakeholders who have interest in their CSR activities. Needless to say monitoring should be done to assess the progress made on the programme side as well as on the financial utilisations.
Most programmes are carried out with the support of NGOs who have experience of working on the ground. This association can be a rich one where each partner adds value to the entire process. As an example effective monitoring is possible by creating a mechanism to collect relevant data that can be monitored periodically as well as by listening to the voices of beneficiaries to see whether the desired outcomes have been achieved. Whereas the NGOs can help by making use of participatory processes some other resource agencies can develop their capacities to develop log frames. Years of working in the social development sector has led to the development of excellent tools which should be used to monitor programmes. Participatory research has several benefits. In addition to collecting the required data it can be an empowering process for the beneficiaries where they get to discuss and analyse their problems prioritize these and also suggest possible solutions.
On the other hand the Companies can also bring in efficient mechanisms for monitoring. As companies continue to expand their CSR projects geographically and across themes technology would play a significant role in planning and monitoring and breaking the geographical barriers. It would serve as an economically viable solution. Companies and their CSR committees can review real time data aggregated in a single location with technology enabled monitoring tools which would help in decisionmaking and necessary course corrections. In this era where technology has revolutionised the way companies do business the role it can play in the way they undertake social development cannot be undermined especially where the scale of programmes is large. However it must also be understood that all geographies do not have the infrastructure required to use technology not to mention the problem of connectivity even in those areas where infrastructure is available. Besides capacity development is needed for the staff to make use of technology. So while technology is an enabler it should be used after assessing all these factors.
From our experience of working and interacting with a number of Foundations one can say that monitoring mechanisms need to be strengthened. The focus of monitoring is largely on the outputs. Unless it moves to assessment of outcomes and impact it creates the usefulness of the programmes in changing the lives of people would remain uncertain. Similarly many NGOs give greater emphasis to planning and executing activities on the ground conducting participatory research to understand the problems and empowering people rather than monitoring the programme. While they have very good experience of working with people monitoring of these programmes is often not very robust and is considered an additional responsibility. A close partnership between the two where there is sharing of strengths can help in making monitoring more effective.
BEIJINGHONG KONG Among the issues Chinas top leaders tackled this week as they hammered out their policy roadmap some may determine whether children attending the likes of the Pengying school in Beijing fulfill their dreams.
Thanks to Chinas system of internal passports or hukou parents in search of better jobs in the capital or other urban areas leave behind the public services they were entitled to as residents of their home villages their pension healthcare insurance and free public schooling.
That means that if they want to educate their children they have to find an unlicensed school such as Pengying which charges an annual fee of yuan most of a months earnings for some migrant families.
At the school desks are rusty smoggy air seeps in through broken windows and the acrid smell of broken plumbing fills the hallways. Students learn the basics despite such conditions but importantly may not sit for the official exams required to attend local universities.
There is no choice said Mrs. Wang the mother of another of Pengyings students who declined to provide her given name. She brought her yearold to Beijing from southwest Sichuan province more than kilometers miles away and started a catering business. There is no future either if you stay at home she said.
Easing the hukou system would undoubtedly make life easier for the more than million people who have moved into Chinas cities from smaller towns and villages and the roughly million more people China expects to move from the countryside into cities in the next seven years.
Beijing wants this mass migration to be the backbone of an urbanization drive to combat rapidly rising factory wages and to help wean the economy from a dependence on manufactured exports by promoting urban consumer consumption.
At the Communist Partys Central Committees third plenary session which ended on Tuesday the countrys leaders pointed to reforms that analysts have said could set in motion changes in how social services are paid for ultimately leading to a nationwide social safety net seen as critical if the urbanization drive is to work.
A report from the official Xinhua news agency on the closeddoor meeting said the leaders promised a more fair and sustainable social security system and deeper reform of medical and health systems.
It also agreed to step up efforts to improve social welfare and deepen institutional reforms to realize social justice for all.
The ideas are broad so it is not clear exactly what Chinas leaders may have in mind. That will only emerge in coming months or possibly years.
But analysts say unifying Chinas patchwork of social services would let citizens seek opportunities wherever they might find them and produce broader benefits for the economy.
Portable healthcare pensions and education could revive Chinas weakening productivity gains and reduce the propensity of Chinas citizens to save for a rainy day rather than spend.
It could also quell growing discontent over widening income inequality and a disparity of opportunity a source of great anxiety for a leadership that prizes social stability over almost all else.
If the central government pays for this you can build up a national standard so people can move said Peng Wensheng chief economist at China International Capital in Beijing. Mobility means a better use of skills a more efficient use of skills.
Shifting the financial burden of such social services to the national government would eliminate a mismatch between tax income and spending whereby local governments collect just over half of national tax revenue but bear percent of public spending costs.
Doing that economists say would remove much of the rationale among local governments for a massive borrowing binge that has pushed local government debt to Detroitlike levels.
Credit Suisse estimates local government debt could exceed trillion yuan . trillion or as the IMF estimates equivalent to roughly percent of Chinas economic output.
Fiscal reform is bureaucratic said Vincent Chan head of equity research at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong. Thats easier to bargain.
Costs for provincial governments have risen dramatically as Chinas onechild policy accelerated the costs of an ageing society. Rapid urbanization meant costs for pensions healthcare and other social services jumped as healthy wageearners fled to more affluent provinces and the population of new citizens declined.
As a result most provincial governments saw demands on their spending surge. Beijings solution has been to transfer a lump sum to help cover the costs a massive annual transaction.
For anything else like investing in key infrastructure or projects designed to boost growth and the business tax revenue upon which they rely local governments go around the law to either sell land or borrow.
Although the central committees pronouncements on fiscal reform were equally vague on Tuesday they appeared to edge towards greater balance between the provinces and Beijing talking of establishing a modern fiscal system that lets both the central and local governments play active roles.
Reforms in the s ended free healthcare although the government has managed to push medical insurance to percent of the population in the past several years.
Still spending on healthcare has fallen only slightly according to the World Bank to . percent of household income from . percent. And roughly percent of the insured cost of medical care is borne by local governments according to Credit Suisse.
Creating a national healthcare insurance system could turn China into one of the worlds largest pharmaceutical buyers economists say helping drive costs down and increasing the quality of care.
Provincelevel pensions are also chronically underfunded as they have been collecting from workers about percent of their wages and their employers percent of employee wages only since .
Worse workers can only draw from the employerfunded part of their pensions if they work for years in a single province. That not only discourages people from moving to take up better jobs elsewhere it encourages workers to save on their own and worsens the pressure on public funding.
It limits the overall incentive to participate in pension systems said Helen Qiao an economist at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong.
Compared to those issues funding Chinas nine years of compulsory primaryschool education seems an easy task.
Education is the single largest government expense in China according to Credit Suisse larger even than outlays on defense. Yet local governments shoulder roughly percent of that cost.
But those costs hide the expense to migrants who have to pay for their children to attend unlicensed schools like Pengying.
Many cities have committed to finding spaces in schools for migrant children but the problem remains so widespread that the Rural Education Action Program a group of researchers from Stanford University the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and Northwest Socioeconomic Development Research Center determined there were migrant schools in Beijing alone educating roughly percent of migrant children.
The number of children being schooled outside the education system has sparked calls for the government to let them take university entrance exams outside their home base.
Its OK if they dont give us money but they can at least treat us as equals said Pengyings headmistress who would only provide her surname Zhao. These children are all children of China. Why should they be treated differently
All quotes delayed a minimum of minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays. 
Greece is going ahead with reform measures in defiance of its bailout obligations with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras calling Tuesday for parliament to vote on a series of social reform bills at the end of the week.
The vote is scheduled to take place Friday the same day as a controversial deadline imposed by Greeces eurozone partners at talks that collapsed in Brussels on Monday.
We will not succumb to psychological blackmail Tsipras said following a dramatic showdown in Brussels which saw his finance minister reject a deal which hinged on an extension to the countrys bailout program.
As a meeting of eurozone finance ministers broke up without an agreement Brussels told Athens it must agree to extend its massive bailout by the end of the week or face a possible exit from the eurozone.
Tsipras said Wolfgang Schaeuble had lost his cool ahead of the meeting after the German finance minister said he felt sorry for the Greeks.
With great respect and in friendship I would like to tell him he should feel sorry for people walking with their heads bowed Tsipras said in reference to Greeces refusal to bow to Germany on austerity.
The social bills will tackle the humanitarian crisis caused by the mistakes in the bailout recipe he said.
This is the debt we must repay first. We will not betray the Greek peoples confidence.
table thead tr th table tfoot tr th table tbody tr td table tr td table tfoot tr td 
WASHINGTON Alan Greenspan search and Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton search clashed briefly Tuesday over rosy surplus forecasts the Federal Reserve search Chairman relied on to support President President Bushs tax cuts estimates that turned out to be considerably off the mark.
Just for the record we were not all wrong but many people were wrong Clinton DN.Y. quickly shot back.
Greenspan lent critical support for Bushs firstterm tax cuts saying they would stimulate the thenailing economy. Clinton and many Democrats voted against the tax cuts arguing that they would mainly benefit the wealthy and that federal deficits search would balloon.
In early we were confronted at that time with an almost universal expectation amongst the experts that we were dealing with a very large surplus for which there seemed to be no end Greenspan said.
The federal government did produce a budget surplus in . But after that it has been wracking up record amounts of red ink.
If confronted with the same evidence we had back then I would recommend exactly what I recommended then he said.
The hearing before the Senate Special Committee on Aging mostly dwelled on revamping Social Security.
On that front Greenspan issued a fresh call to Congress to move promptly to put Social Security on firm financial footing warning that doing nothing would lead to massive budget deficits and cause the economy to stagnate or worse.
The looming retirement of million baby boomers will put a huge strain on the Depressionera retirement program and aggravate the countrys already bloated budget deficits he said.
Unless the trend is reversed at some point these deficits would cause the economy to stagnate or worse Greenspan said.
The Fed chief again endorsed a key part of President Bushs Social Security overhaul to create private investment accounts and said officials must proceed slowly in setting them up. But Greenspan also said that Congress must move ahead quickly to do other things to fix the retirement programs financing problems.
Congress will need to consider possible benefit cuts and higher tax rates before the baby boomers begin retiring Greenspan suggested.
But he cautioned that closing the gap solely with rising tax rates would be problematic because the high level of taxation that would be required could by itself severely inhibit economic growth.
Because benefit cuts will almost surely be at least part of the solution Greenspan said it is imperative for Congress to let future retirees know as soon as possible that all currently promised benefits wont be forthcoming when they retire.
Greenspan again found himself in the middle of an issue that has raised partisan hackles on Capitol Hill. Bush has been traveling the country to sell his Social Security overhaul plan although various polls have shown a lukewarm reaction among the public to the idea of personal savings accounts for younger workers. Democrats have vehemently opposed his plan although they have not offered a unified party counterproposal and some Republicans who are up for reelection in are nervous about Bushs push for Social Security changes.
Although recent polls show most Americans are opposed to personal accounts Bush said hes heartened by figures that show most people recognize Social Security has financial problems. He said he is committed to finding a solution.
Im just getting started on this issue Bush said from the Oval Office Tuesday.
The Fed chief said Tuesday that unless growth in the Social Security as well as the Medicare search programs is restrained these programs will require more and more government resources. Spending on these programs will rise from about percent of the total economy currently to about percent by he said.
These projections make clear that the federal budget is on an unsustainable path in which large budget deficits will push up interest rates Greenspan said. The government last year produced a deficit of billion a record in dollar terms.
The presidents plan to revamp Social Security would allow workers to divert a chunk of their payroll taxes into personal investment accounts.
The accounts by themselves wont fix the solvency of the retirement program but they raise the specter of increasing savings which is extremely low.
Greenspan said that Congress must consider how to achieve solvency as well as boost savings. Focusing solely on solvency he said would be a mistake.
Private accounts can be structured by Congress in different ways Greenspan said. He urged lawmakers to fashion such accounts in a way that would generate savings.
That he said must be at the top of the list of any solution. Anything that we can do to raise personal savings is very much in the interest of this country Greenspan said.
In setting up private investment accounts Greenspan also called for lawmakers to start out small in an effort to test the waters and see how financial markets react to increased government borrowing needed to bring such accounts about.
Greenspan also suggested resurrecting the notion of sealing off Social Security revenues from other uses. Last year Social Security tax revenues plus interest exceeded benefits by about billion he said.
We need in effect to make the phantom lockboxes around the trust fund real he said.
This material may not be published broadcast rewritten or redistributed. FOX News Network LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed minutes. Privacy Terms FAQ
Scotlands new financial powers have become clearer as the government announced reforms to council tax and social security.
Yesterday Nicola Sturgeon the Scottish first minister announced that from April next year the Scottish government will lift the council tax freeze and increase council tax for properties in bands E to H.
She said the council tax increases which vary from just over each year for band E to for band H would raise m a year to be spent on schools and councils would have the power to increase council tax by a year raising an extra m.
She said the government will also increase the child allowance within the council tax reduction scheme by benefiting low income households by an average of per year.
Meanwhile Alex Neil MSP cabinet secretary for social justice communities and pensioners rights announced that under the Scotland Bill the Scottish government will gain control of eleven types of benefit although this only represents of welfare spending. It will also be able to create new benefits and change the way universal credit is paid.
He said the Scottish government would introduce a new Scottish social security agency to deliver changes to benefits including increasing carers allowance by a year to the same level as jobseekers allowance scrapping rules cutting benefits to the families of disabled children if they are in hospital for more than days limiting the bedroom tax and introducing new flexibilities on paying universal credit including paying social landlords directly.
The news comes after months of financial negotiations between the English and Scottish governments produced a promise that funding to Scotland will stay at the same level for the next six years.
SA could sustain its social spending commitments for decades but would be hardpressed to implement all the new social policy proposals the National Development Plan puts on the table says Treasury budget office head Michael Sachs.
SAs huge expansion of social spending since has raised concerns among some commentators that it will face a fiscal cliff at some point and be unable to sustain current or expanded spending levels on health education and welfare.Mr Sachs presented the Treasurys model to answer these questions at a World BankNational Treasury workshop on SAs fiscal framework last week. The model projected spending into coming decades.In a scenario of moderate economic growth of about and moderate population growth current levels of spending are sustainable.However should growth stagnate at or less or the population grow much faster than anticipated then social spending levels would be difficult to maintain. A sustainable path according to the model is one where SAs debt level stabilises or declines.Mr Sachs said spending on social grants was expected to stabilise and even diminish as a share of gross domestic product GDP over the next years even with a moderate increase in takeup rates.Spending levels on basic education are also considered adequate as the schoolage population declines over time. Spending on healthcare however would need to increase to maintain current levels of service or in the event of the introduction of a National Health Insurance scheme.A growth rate of would require a structural increase in revenue as health expenditure would need to rise to of GDP for an NHI scheme to go ahead from current levels which are less than .Mr Sachs said this meant that additional revenue would be required through taxation or a reprioritisation of expenditure. However not all the new social spending policies could be realised.New proposals include a dramatic expansion of vocational training outlined in the white paper on higher education. In addition reforms to social grants to provide unemployment support as well as a large expansion of public employment programmes are under discussion in the government.New social spending pressures are most likely to emerge in the area of unemployed youth Mr Sachs said. One of the purposes of the modelling exercise was to look at what these are as none of the proposals have been costed. The model shows that we could possibly do one of these but it would be a tall order to do all three.From DFM Publishers Pty Ltd
FMCG RETAIL SERVICES MARKETING PACKAGING LIQUOR JOBS LOGISTICS RETAILERS EXPORTS 
News Media News media Media releases McClure reforms fail students
The Australian Association of Social Workers AASW believes the McClure Welfare reforms seriously disadvantage young people and others hoping to improve their situation by studying.
This group it seems likely will be placed on the lowest level of welfare assistance the socalled Foundation Tier of the Working Age Payment. It can only be assumed that this will be at the very base level of income support as it is now and totally inadequate.
This replicates some of the worst elements of the current system where students are on the lowest paid Youth Allowance Austudy or Abstudy. These allowances are even lower than the grossly inadequate Newstart Allowance.
The McClure reform agenda while appearing to be strong on improving employment and social outcomes has ignored the evidence of the ongoing Universities Australia studies that indicate an increasing polarisation between the haves and the have nots that is seriously affecting the latters ability to achieve a university. And this is on top of new degree fees.
AASW President Professor Karen Healy says welfare reforms that leave many students destitute during their four or more years of university study are a serious failure of welfare policy.
It is not good enough to say that students could work while completing their courses said Professor Healy.
Courses that prepared students for a professional career demand a full time commitment and there is limited additional time for paid employment. Yet increasingly students are being forced into long hours of paid work simploy to survive.
There appears to be no commitment in the report to a basic human right of being supported to live above the poverty line.
Receive our fortnightly eBulletin to stay up to date with news events and opportunities.
Chat to us stay informed find opportunities to get involved and contribute to social change.
The AASW respectfully acknowledges Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and pay our respects to elders past and present. 
All you need from one partner to connect you for a better future. Explore what we can do for you.
BT is one of the worlds leading communications services companies serving the needs of customers in the UK and in around countries worldwide
The Governments proposed reforms to social care funding do not go far enough to solve the problems besetting the system a report has warned.
The Care Bill which will cap social care costs at from comes before Parliament for the first time later when it receives its second reading in the House of Lords.
The Bill is designed to implement key recommendations from the Dilnot Report and end the situation where thousands of elderly people are forced to sell their homes to pay for care in their final years enabling them to take out insurance against possible bills.
The report from the Kings Fund health thinktank gave its backing to the Bill which it said would provide welcome protection for people from the catastrophic costs associated with long stays in residential care.
However it warned that much more should be done to meet mounting financial pressures.
The report called for the Government to use next months Spending Review to move towards establishing a single budget for the NHS and adult social care which is currently funded through local authorities.
We must also think boldly about removing the unhelpful fault lines which exist across health and social care spending. Instead of robbing Peter to pay Paul by raiding the NHS budget to bail out social care we need a more ambitious shift towards singlebudget settlements for NHS and social care.
The report also called on the Government to ensure that there is proper preparation and planning for implementing the Dilnot proposals to establish a new framework for planning and costsharing.
And it said that there needs to be a fresh debate about the options for funding the quantity and quality of care needed in future and how to overcome dividing lines between the ways health and social care are paid for.
Residents have been baffled as to why coach loads of tourists have been spotted taking selfies in the quiet residential streets of the Oxfordshire village.
Several Democratic senators are separating themselves from their leadership and encouraging President Obama to cut Social Security benefits by raising the retirement age in order to keep the entitlement solvent.
My sons are and neither of them thinks Social Security is around for them. I want to make sure that it is said Carper Its going to have to be a combination of very modest adjustments in benefits very modest and some frankly fairly modest changes with respect to revenues.
Obama will deliver a speech at George Washington University on Wednesday about debt reduction and has come under heavy pressure from labor unions and liberal groups not to endorse Social Security cuts as part of his plan.
He is not expected to call for a Social Security overhaul but Democratic senators suggest that he could get bipartisan backing if he chose to do so and took the lead. The fiscal commission he appointed more than a year ago has already laid out a roadmap.
Carper noted that the commission chaired by former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles and former Sen. Alan Simpson RWyo. called for a gradual increase in the retirement age to by and by .
Carper and other Democrats willing to consider an increase in the retirement age stress the savings should go to prolonging the life of the safetynet program and not to reducing the deficit.
Feinstein an influential voice in the Senate Democratic Conference could also support a gradual increase in the retirement age.
Depending on how its done yes Feinstein told The Hill last month. If you change it a month a year beginning in the year its benign relatively benign Feinstein said. The earlier you make the changes the easier they are.
Anybody on Social Security today under any of the reform plans Ive seen for Social Security will continue to get the benefits promised but the people coming on will get a little less than they would otherwise get under current law Lieberman said. Theyll get less because right now Social Security is on schedule to run out of money so that would lead to enormous cuts in Social Security.
Youve got to be willing to put everything on the table he told The Hill recently.
Warner said the argument from his liberal colleagues that retirement benefits should be sacrosanct ignores longterm fiscal projections.
Its just kind of hard to argue when some of this is math workers for every one retiree years ago and now three workers for every retiree he said noting that life expectancy has increased nearly years since President Franklin Roosevelt started the program.
But Senate Republicans negotiating a broad deficit reduction package will insist that it include Social Security reform.
Although Social Security has a . trillion surplus the balance is theoretical since the federal government has borrowed from the programs trust fund to pay for other priorities. Adding to its fiscal problems the program went cash negative last year when it began paying out more in benefits than it accepted in payroll taxes.
You cant just borrow the money from the international financial community unless you arrange for its future Coburn said. Unless the markets see we have taken care and solved our longterm budget problems it will lead to a significantly increased cost of borrowing by not fixing Social Security.
He argues the federal government will have to take on more debt to pay off the obligations it owes to the Social Security trust fund.
Several Senate Democrats have signaled theyre willing to look at adjustments to Social Security benefits in combination with raising the cap on income subject to payroll taxes. One idea is to raise the cap only for individuals earning more than a year and families making more than .
But they are reluctant to go out on a limb before the president or their colleagues have publicly unveiled specific proposals.
I dont want to exclude the possibility said Sen. Carl LevinCarl LevinFight for taxpayers draws fire Gun debate shows value of the filibuster House wont vote on Navy shipnaming restrictions MORE DMich. when asked about raising the retirement age. I dont want to commit to any possibilities because its much too fluid and much too big an issue. It involves a lot of other issues.
A pivotal figure is Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad DN.D. a member of the Gang of Six who has kept his intentions quiet.
I just dont think its wise for me to begin that discussion in the hallway he said when asked about cutting Social Security benefits as part of a broader plan for extending its solvency.
Social Security is projected to pay percent of benefits until . After that point tax income would be sufficient to pay about percent of scheduled benefits.
Hillary Clinton is careless and reckless with Americas secrets that is the essence of FBI.
The contents of this site are Capitol Hill Publishing Corp. a subsidiary of News Communications Inc.
But in a literary sense the heyday of Gothic writing was in the late th and early th centuries with the works of luminaries such as Horace Walpole Charlotte Smith Ann Radcliffe and William Godwin according to Ellen Malenas Ledoux an associate professor of English and director of the Womens and Gender Studies Program at RutgersCamden.
These works explore the darker impulses of human nature such as paranoia barbarism and the taboo explains Ledoux. Some of the markers of Gothic literature arent often what one would think it doesnt have to be supernatural but deals with confusion about boundaries such as those between what is alive and dead or animal and human.
In a fantasy world you can offer an alternative vision of something that you cant through realistic writing. Ellen Melenas Ledoux
In the first chapter Ledoux reveals how Walpole conceived of Gothic writing as a powerful political tool useful in shaping the opinions of an increasingly literate population by using narrative to play upon its collective fears. In the following chapter she demonstrates how women authors used the symbolic richness of Gothic space to challenge existing forms of domestic politics. In the third chapter Ledoux examines Godwins first foray into the supernatural arguing that St. Leons alchemical themes created opportunities for him to address the intertwined philosophical political and personal challenges he faced after the French Revolution.
In the following chapter Ledoux takes a materialist approach to setting arguing that Charles Brockden Browns Arthur Mervyn published serially from to addresses yellow fever as an immediate medical and social problem. She explores how Browns gothic scenes of horror inspired by the outbreak in Philadelphia in discredit institutional healthcare by characterizing it as brutal and ineffective. In chapter five Ledoux highlights the reformist writings of Matthew Lewis one of the principal figures of the Gothic canon. Lewis wrote both Gothic and nonfiction texts that engage with the abolition and emancipation debates over a year period.
Ledoux earned bachelors degrees in English and psychology from Stanford University in and a masters degree in AngloIrish literature from Trinity College in . She subsequently attended the University of Virginia where she earned a masters degree in and a Ph.D. in both in English language and literature.
WASHINGTONAccording to a report released Monday by the Brookings Institution the single most effective argument in favor of social reform continues to be indignantly saying aloud what the current year is. When it comes to making a case for reordering the social order weve failed to find any rhetorical strategy more effective or compelling than saying Its and asking why societal change hasnt occurred said policy analyst Brad Katz adding that the argument was even more powerful when immediately followed with the phrases I mean come on or for crying out loud Furthermore we found that all social progress throughout our historyincluding abolition womens suffrage and the entire gay rights movementcan be credited to stating the current year claiming you dont know what year defenders of the status quo are living in and reminding them that if they happened to look at a calendar they would notice that the year you stated is the current year. However the report noted that Americans have recently seen a sharp decline in the effectiveness of stating what country this is.
If it werent for the Affordable Care Act my family would be uninsured.
Without the Affordable Care Act I would now be nearly in debt with no way to pay for it.
I am a wife and mother to young children ages . I am recovering and alive because I had insurance.
I am an American with many hopes and dreams and I know I will face many challenges ahead. But now I have peace of mind and less anxiety about maintaining good health.
Before this Act I was very limited in obtaining any health care. It has changed my life dramatically.
I cannot begin to express the relief and decreased stress this has brought me.
My guess is that there are many more Americans whose new health insurance is already allowing them to contribute more fully to the economy and their communities.
I remember breaking down in tears because no longer was I going to be punished for a disease I never asked for.
I cried the day I was finally able to sign up for coverage. I felt like a fiftypound weight was lifted from my shoulders.
Our budget is very tight and we live month to month. So having this coverage is a huge relief for us.
The stories of everyday Americans and more importantly the courage it took to share those stories is what kept this effort alive and moving forward even when it looked like it was lost. They are why we got this done. They are why I signed this bill into law.
Therefore SOLIDAR is launching today July at the premises of the International Labour Organisations ILO International Training Centre and with support by ACTRAV the ILO Bureau for Workers Activities itsSocial Progress Lab a space to develop an alternative vision of our social Europe where high social safeguards are implemented and member states are developing together for more upward convergence and more equality for Europes citizens.
The Social Progress Lab starts with a Symposium taking place today in Turin which hosts a group of academics and independent thinkers. Focusing on the introduction of social safeguards in the Unions policies and economic governance the selected participants will present and discuss their policy alternatives to create higher quality jobs more inclusive growth and social investment.
Participants are discussing their academic papers under the supervision and guidance of our special advisor Dr. Lieve Fransen former Director for Social Policies DG EMPL European Commission and the scientific advisory group which consists of Dr. Rmi Bazillier Universit dOrlans Dr. Giovanni Cozzi University of Greenwich Dr. Amandine Crespy Universit Libre de Bruxelles Prof. Dr. Ferdi De Ville Ghent University and Dr. Angela Wigger Radboud University Nijmegen.
Todays symposium is the first step in a process that will lead to the presentation of an edited volume at the European Parliament in December . With this publication SOLIDAR aims to present constructive policy proposals that will safeguard and encourage social progress in Europe.
Find out about job opportunities and internships at Social Platform and our members
Republicans who took over the House on pledges to reduce federal spending and get the nations budget in order are running into the third rail of U.S. politics.
A draft proposal from the cochairman of President Obamas fiscal commission this week put Social Security on the front burner leading some Democrats to draw a line in the sand. The proposal would raise the retirement age slightly reduce benefits and raise the cap on income subject to payroll taxes.
It does put them in a tough position Mike Lux a strategist who works with liberal advocacy groups said of the GOP. These kinds of proposals raising the retirement age and cutting benefits are overwhelmingly unpopular with the American people.
Liberal groups and Democrats think theyve found an issue where they can go on offense after a devastating midterm election for the party.
When people think about cutting government spending this is not what theyre thinking about Lux said. Its going to put a lot of Republicans who advocated for that in a tough position.
Liberal Democrats and labor leaders seized on the Social Security cuts outlined in the draft proposal released Wednesday to blast the cochairmen of Obamas fiscal commission.
Especially in these tough economic times it is unconscionable to be proposing cuts to the critical economic lifelines for working people Social Security and Medicare said AFLCIO President Richard Trumka.
The attacks show Democrats are itching to frame fights over the nations budget and deficit around possible cuts to Social Security something some Democrats tried to do during the campaign. Attacks on GOP plans showed little success then but that could change with House Republicans in a position of power.
Ryan has introduced the Roadmap for Americas Future Act which would implement spending cuts to Medicare and Social Security.
Ryans legislation would accelerate the increase in the Social Security retirement age to and thereafter increase it a month every two years according to an analysis by Douglas Elmendorf director of the Congressional Budget Office.
The legislation would also lower retirement benefits for workers who are or younger in and would establish a system of individual accounts in . Workers and younger could choose to fund these accounts with a portion of their payroll taxes.
Michael Steel Boehners spokesman noted that Reps. Steny Hoyer DMd. and James Clyburn DS.C. who are running for the Democratic whips post have voiced support for raising the Social Security retirement age.
Like Vice President Joe Biden Rep. Hoyer and Rep. Clyburn Boehner has suggested this as a possible option to protect Social Security for future generations Steel said. 
But Republican pollsters warn that talk about raising the retirement age could come back to hurt Republicans on the campaign trail noting that campaign ads often ignore the details of such proposals.
Part of it depends on whats the story said Glen Bolger a GOP pollster and cofounder of Public Opinion Strategies. If the story is Social Security retirement age to go up thats very problematic.
If the story is Social Security retirement age is to go up in its a little less troublesome he said. But you know what the ads will be like when they run them again.
Democratic strategists say it will be difficult for Republican leaders to steer clear of Social Security reforms after pledging to voters a new regime of fiscal discipline in Washington.
At the end of the day if theyre really serious about putting government on a diet what theyre talking about is a liquid diet Lehane said. Are they going to cut back on Social Security and Medicare They could look at other places but those are tiny amounts of money.
Republican lawmakers routinely talk about the need to eliminate earmarks and waste fraud and abuse in the federal budget but former Sen. Alan Simpson Wyo. the Republican cochairman of the fiscal commission estimates that will get you percent out of the hole were in.
But centrist Democrats say the draft recommendations from the fiscal commission cochairmen are reasonable. They note the money saved from the proposed reforms would be used to strengthen Social Security and not go toward the general Treasury deficit.
The recommendations on Social Security fall well within the mainstream of what most progressive organizations that care about Social Security solvency think should be done to save it said Jim Kessler vice president for policy at Third Way a centrist Democratic think tank. Everyone believes there should be increases in the retirement age some adjustment to the costofliving adjustments and some increase in revenues.
Hillary Clinton is careless and reckless with Americas secrets that is the essence of FBI.
The contents of this site are Capitol Hill Publishing Corp. a subsidiary of News Communications Inc.
The social security system has been the talisman of the American welfare state.
Established by President Franklin Roosevelt in the depth of the depression in the s it established a generous system of state pensions for old age based on income and contributions.
It is now the largest single spending programme of the Federal government costing nearly bn each year.
With the growing budget deficit attention has been increasingly focusing on controlling the cost of such entitlement programmes where payments increase automatically as more people retire something likely to happen as the babyboomer generation begins retiring after .
Now President Bushs council of economic advisors have revived a radical plan to partly privatise social security.
Under one version of the Presidents plans younger workers under would be allowed to optout of most of their social security payroll taxes.
Instead they would put aside of their income in a personal retirement account which they could invest in the stock market.
Since the current social security system is a payasyougo system making up the shortfall could cost between trillion.
The money would have to be borrowed by issuing special government bonds increasing the governments overall indebtedness by and adding . to the debttoGDP ratio which is currently . by .
But the annual report from the Council of Economic Advisors argues that this temporary increase in government borrowing is not a problem from an economic perspective.
Originally President Bush planned to use the huge projected budget surpluses to fund his social security reform.
But the advisors argue that the growing budget deficit is not a reason for refraining from radical reform.
Since the budget surpluses forecast a few years ago have not materialised critics argue that adding personal retirement accounts to social security is impossible or impractical.
In reality the need to add resources to the social security system is no less pressing now that the surpluses have disappeared indeed they may be more so the report says.
The authors warn that without reform the total unfunded social security deficit could reach trillion.
According to the report if no action is taken then Federal spending will rise from of GDP now to of GDP by excluding debt interest payments.
Attempts to reform social security have caused a political firestorm in the past and several blueribbon commissions in the last decade have made recommendations which have led to reductions in benefits a delay in retirement age and increases in payroll taxes.
Democrats argue that Mr Bushs plans would add to the deficit take resources away from the private sector and lead to interest rate rises.
And some independent experts argue that the costs and fees involved in setting up private retirement accounts would outweigh the benefits for people on moderate or low incomes.
Congress may be reluctant to consider these proposals during an election year and last years bitter battle over the reform of the other major entitlement programme Medicare shows how difficult change can be.
But if Mr Bush manages to win reelection with an increased majority in Congress radical reform of social security could be back on the agenda.
The forthcoming Life Chances Strategy will set out a comprehensive plan for transforming the life chances of disadvantaged children.
The Neighbourhood Planning and Infrastructure Bill will pick up where the Homes and Planning Act left off. This Bill will reform planning and give local communities more power and control to shape their own area so that we build more houses
It will include measures to reform and speed up the planning process by minimising delays caused by precommencement planning conditions. A new statutory basis for the independent National Infrastructure Commission. Streamlined processes supporting neighbourhoods to come together to agree plans that will get home building under way.
A new Care Leavers Covenant underpinned by statutory duties will make sure local authorities set out clearly the entitlements for care leavers including housing jobs and healthcare.
Legislation will support the Governments ambition to deliver one million new homes whilst protecting those areas that we value most including the Green Belt. Drive more effective and efficient delivery of housing and infrastructure that local communities need and make the process clearer faster and fairer. Also included is a commitment to more traineeships.
Continued support by Whitehall in devolving powers and budgets and creating powerful new elected mayors who will give people in northern cities and towns a strong voice.
A transfer of up to bn to councils through allowing them to retain of the business rates they collect.
Legislation will improve coordination between the public and private sectors to tackle criminal financial behaviour.
This will help those from low incomes build up their savings. Workers in receipt of working tax credits or Universal Credit who save up to a month will receive a Government bonus of to a maximum of after two years.
These will be sold for housing developments see the Budget announcement made by George Osborne
For more details on this issue or how to receive your copy visit our new housing site.
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife.
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems.
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants.
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens.
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals.
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan.
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education.
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up.
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
Incoming President Rodrigo Duterte has unveiled an point economic agenda designed to attract more investors and bring about real inclusive growth to the people.
Time for a more revitalized economy that promotes business and likewise spreads benefits down to the masses.
Likewise Duterte has announced a social reform program that would improve discipline minimize alcohol consumption and help lessen crime.
Yes to a social reform program that could prove beneficial to Philippine society in the long run observing the democratic Constitutional principle of regulation not prohibition.
Economic Committee member Carlos Sonny Dominguez a prominent businessman and former agriculture secretary outlined Dutertes point economic agenda in a press conference noting that the clean elections and Dutertes call for national unity and healing have already triggered a percent uptick in the stock market.
Eightpoint agenda should boost business confidence and trigger economic growth.
Firstly Duterte says he will continue and maintain the current macroeconomic policies apparently to ensure stability.
But there will be reforms in tax revenue collection and along with bureaucratic reforms within the Bureau of Internal Revenue BIR and the Bureau of Customs BOC he says.
Secondly the Duterte administration will accelerate infrastructure spending by addressing among others major bottlenecks in the PrivatePublic Partnership PPP program setting aside percent of the countrys Gross Domestic Product GDP to infrastructure spending.
Thirdly it will ensure attractiveness of the Philippines to foreign direct investments by addressing restrictive economic provisions in the Constitution and our laws and enhancing competitiveness i.e. ease of doing in the economy.
Lesser restrictions on foreign investments as in other countries and more business promotion.
Fourth Team Duterte also vows to pursue a genuine agricultural development strategy by providing support services to small farmers to increase their productivity improve their market access and develop the agricultural value chain by forging partnership with agribusiness firms.
Agriculture to get a muchneeded boost the Philippines being an agricultural country.
Fifth it will address bottlenecks and improve administrative and management system.
Sixth Duterte vows to strengthen our basic education system and provide scholarship for tertiary education which are relevant to the needs of private sector employees.
Seventh the new administration will improve the income tax system to enable those who earn little to have more money in their pockets.
Eight Duterte will expand and improve implementation of the Conditional Cash Transfer CCT program.
Under the point economic agenda Dominguez says the Duterte government will also promote tourism in rural areas and expand PhilHealth coverage for the people.
As to the planned reforms in government bureaucracy the Duterte administration vows to vigorously pursue the prosecution of corrupt government officials and employees.
Meanwhile Duterte spokesman Peter Tiu Lavia says Duterte plans to improve discipline by imposing a p.m. curfew for children and a midnight cutoff for drinking and serving of liquor by establishments among others.
nodesi.parentNode.setAttributedatadisqusidentifier nodesi.getAttributerel s.src disqus.comforums disqusshortname count.js
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife.
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems.
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants.
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens.
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals.
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan.
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education.
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up.
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The forthcoming Life Chances Strategy will set out a comprehensive plan for transforming the life chances of disadvantaged children.
The Neighbourhood Planning and Infrastructure Bill will pick up where the Homes and Planning Act left off. This Bill will reform planning and give local communities more power and control to shape their own area so that we build more houses
It will include measures to reform and speed up the planning process by minimising delays caused by precommencement planning conditions. A new statutory basis for the independent National Infrastructure Commission. Streamlined processes supporting neighbourhoods to come together to agree plans that will get home building under way.
A new Care Leavers Covenant underpinned by statutory duties will make sure local authorities set out clearly the entitlements for care leavers including housing jobs and healthcare.
Legislation will support the Governments ambition to deliver one million new homes whilst protecting those areas that we value most including the Green Belt. Drive more effective and efficient delivery of housing and infrastructure that local communities need and make the process clearer faster and fairer. Also included is a commitment to more traineeships.
Continued support by Whitehall in devolving powers and budgets and creating powerful new elected mayors who will give people in northern cities and towns a strong voice.
A transfer of up to bn to councils through allowing them to retain of the business rates they collect.
Legislation will improve coordination between the public and private sectors to tackle criminal financial behaviour.
This will help those from low incomes build up their savings. Workers in receipt of working tax credits or Universal Credit who save up to a month will receive a Government bonus of to a maximum of after two years.
These will be sold for housing developments see the Budget announcement made by George Osborne
For more details on this issue or how to receive your copy visit our new housing site.
Incoming President Rodrigo Duterte has unveiled an point economic agenda designed to attract more investors and bring about real inclusive growth to the people.
Time for a more revitalized economy that promotes business and likewise spreads benefits down to the masses.
Likewise Duterte has announced a social reform program that would improve discipline minimize alcohol consumption and help lessen crime.
Yes to a social reform program that could prove beneficial to Philippine society in the long run observing the democratic Constitutional principle of regulation not prohibition.
Economic Committee member Carlos Sonny Dominguez a prominent businessman and former agriculture secretary outlined Dutertes point economic agenda in a press conference noting that the clean elections and Dutertes call for national unity and healing have already triggered a percent uptick in the stock market.
Eightpoint agenda should boost business confidence and trigger economic growth.
Firstly Duterte says he will continue and maintain the current macroeconomic policies apparently to ensure stability.
But there will be reforms in tax revenue collection and along with bureaucratic reforms within the Bureau of Internal Revenue BIR and the Bureau of Customs BOC he says.
Secondly the Duterte administration will accelerate infrastructure spending by addressing among others major bottlenecks in the PrivatePublic Partnership PPP program setting aside percent of the countrys Gross Domestic Product GDP to infrastructure spending.
Thirdly it will ensure attractiveness of the Philippines to foreign direct investments by addressing restrictive economic provisions in the Constitution and our laws and enhancing competitiveness i.e. ease of doing in the economy.
Lesser restrictions on foreign investments as in other countries and more business promotion.
Fourth Team Duterte also vows to pursue a genuine agricultural development strategy by providing support services to small farmers to increase their productivity improve their market access and develop the agricultural value chain by forging partnership with agribusiness firms.
Agriculture to get a muchneeded boost the Philippines being an agricultural country.
Fifth it will address bottlenecks and improve administrative and management system.
Sixth Duterte vows to strengthen our basic education system and provide scholarship for tertiary education which are relevant to the needs of private sector employees.
Seventh the new administration will improve the income tax system to enable those who earn little to have more money in their pockets.
Eight Duterte will expand and improve implementation of the Conditional Cash Transfer CCT program.
Under the point economic agenda Dominguez says the Duterte government will also promote tourism in rural areas and expand PhilHealth coverage for the people.
As to the planned reforms in government bureaucracy the Duterte administration vows to vigorously pursue the prosecution of corrupt government officials and employees.
Meanwhile Duterte spokesman Peter Tiu Lavia says Duterte plans to improve discipline by imposing a p.m. curfew for children and a midnight cutoff for drinking and serving of liquor by establishments among others.
nodesi.parentNode.setAttributedatadisqusidentifier nodesi.getAttributerel s.src disqus.comforums disqusshortname count.js
var zflagnid var zflagcid var zflagsid var zflagwidth var zflagheight var zflagsz 
Hi Dont like ads Neither do we but they help us bring all this content to you absolutely free. Please whitelist us to continue reading and watching news from Indias most trusted news source.
Firefox Private Window runs its own version of adblock. You will receive an adblock detection screen on private window even if you are not running any adblock plugins. In this case you will need to open indiatoday.in on your standard Firefox window.
Scotlands new financial powers have become clearer as the government announced reforms to council tax and social security.
Yesterday Nicola Sturgeon the Scottish first minister announced that from April next year the Scottish government will lift the council tax freeze and increase council tax for properties in bands E to H.
She said the council tax increases which vary from just over each year for band E to for band H would raise m a year to be spent on schools and councils would have the power to increase council tax by a year raising an extra m.
She said the government will also increase the child allowance within the council tax reduction scheme by benefiting low income households by an average of per year.
Meanwhile Alex Neil MSP cabinet secretary for social justice communities and pensioners rights announced that under the Scotland Bill the Scottish government will gain control of eleven types of benefit although this only represents of welfare spending. It will also be able to create new benefits and change the way universal credit is paid.
He said the Scottish government would introduce a new Scottish social security agency to deliver changes to benefits including increasing carers allowance by a year to the same level as jobseekers allowance scrapping rules cutting benefits to the families of disabled children if they are in hospital for more than days limiting the bedroom tax and introducing new flexibilities on paying universal credit including paying social landlords directly.
The news comes after months of financial negotiations between the English and Scottish governments produced a promise that funding to Scotland will stay at the same level for the next six years.
JEDDAH Saudi Arabia Reuters Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife. 
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems. 
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants. 
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens. 
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals. 
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan. 
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education. 
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up. 
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported. 
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving. 
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter. 
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s. 
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s. 
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual. 
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist. 
The wave of protest that has swept Brazil over the last two weeks has caught analysts and politicians by surprise. While protestors call for the end of political corruption many of these complaints have been framed by the mainstream media.
The wave of protest that has swept Brazil over the last two weeks has caught analysts and politicians by surprise. The Free Fare Movement MPL in Portuguese an organized social movement that for years has fought for lower public transportation costs in So Paulo began demonstrations on June with a small rally attended by around people. This was received by the state police force with tear gas and rubber bullets and in the following days the MPL responded with more marches that were treated in the same violent fashion by the police. Militants were arrested and some injured. Videos and accounts of police brutality quickly spread over the Internet particularly through social media. By June tens of thousands of people were attending the MPL rallies. In So Paulo protestors paralyzed traffic by blocking major thoroughfares.
Four days later word of the demonstrations spread through social media and protests popped up in several other major cities mostly led by movements focusing on public transportation grievances. In So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro these rallies grew dramatically in size with and protesters respectively. Subsequently the mayors of both cities canceled the increase in the bus fare.
The mayors responses were not enough to halt the wave of unrest however. In the following days an increasing number of protesters took to the streets throughout the country. Neither MPL nor any other organized political group appeared to be at the helm of these protests. Although they still demanded cheaper and better public transportation they were overshadowed by throngs of people holding posters and shouting slogans against all sorts of poor public services the World Cup and political corruption. Violence escalated with each march ending with groups of protesters occupying public buildings setting cars and busses on fire clashing with police and even looting stores and banks. Violent confrontation between groups of protesters also ensued including rightwing groups assaulting people carrying party flags or wearing the colors and symbols of political parties. Skinheads punks neonazis and people wearing nationalist symbols also engaged in violent behavior. Although a minority these groups attracted a great deal of media attention.
On June the MPL declared that it would be leaving the rallies because its leaders feared that the movement was being coopted by rightwing interests. One day later however it recanted announcing new marches to demand better public health and education and also the demilitarization of the state police force. The following day President Dilma Rousseff went on national television to say that the wave of protest was welcome that her government would negotiate with organized social movements that she would sit with governors and mayors to try to build a coalition around improving public transportation and that she would support earmarking all oil royalties for education. But Dilma did not stop there three days later she proposed that an ad hoc constitutional assembly be elected to reform the political system and then be subject to a popular referendum for approval. This proposal was met with strong opposition from legal scholars and constitutional lawyers who declared the move unconstitutional. After consulting with the president of the National Lawyers Association OAB Dilma changed her position and now presented the draft of a reform plan to Congress so representatives and senators would elaborate on it and then submit it to a public referendum.
It is hard to deny that from the viewpoint of political institutions Brazilian democracy has never been better. Elections are clean regular and wellorganized. Results are almost never contested. The executive legislative and judiciary branches all exert their functions according to set norms and procedures. Even the political corruption scandals that have attracted much selective media attention like the Mensalo scandal involving members of the Workers Party PT are almost always the product of investigations conducted by the Federal Police which is under the executive branch. The fact that these illicit acts are investigated and publicized should be evidence of wellfunctioning institutions.
The economy is also doing well. Brazil is going through a prolonged period of full employment. The average income has been rising steadily along with the average family income. Public finances are also healthy. Despite some recent spikes mostly due to fluctuations in international commodity prices inflation is also under control. There is a general sense that GDP growth is insufficient but comparatively speaking the growth rate has been better than most other economies worldwide. Finally polls have shown that until the beginning of the demonstrations Dilmas popular support has been higher than any other previous president including Lula.
The political agenda of the mainstream media has a strong impact on the middle class which is their direct consumer. O Globo recently published a piece on its website boasting about the coincidence between the protesters grievances and its own headlines all of them selectively critical of the Federal Government. In fact most protestors do not seem to be motivated by party preferences.
Many have pointed to the rise of the Internet as an antidote to mainstream medias control of information. Although not entirely false this hypothesis does not take into consideration the fact that most of the information circulated online is produced by the same media conglomerates that dominate the print press and television. This is undoubtedly the case in Brazil.
The Brazilian alternative media is by and large composed of commentators interpreting information produced by the mainstream media who do not have the resources to independently produce news content. In other words it is not a coincidence that protestors who joined the marches originally organized by the MP voiced slogans borrowed heavily from the mainstream media. They complain about practically all major public services as if government had been in a standstill during the last years. There have also been concerns about the economy as a whole. They accuse the political systempolitical institutions parties and individual politiciansof being utterly corrupt. A few posters held by protesters call for Dilma to resign while others call for the return of the military dictatorship. There are also other grievances voiced that are more narrowly focused or more radical.
Joo Feres Junior PhD in Political Science from the City University of New York and Political Science professor at State University of Rio de Janeiro IESP.
Fbio Kerche PhD in Political Science from the State University of So Paulo USP and researcher of Fundao Casa de Rui Barbosa.
Sign up for our NACLA Update for announcements events the latest articles and more
The owner of this website getrevising.co.uk has banned your access based on your browsers signature befeebdcua.
The conservative right in Alberta is became little more crowded this week with the Reform Party of Alberta joining the Progressive Conservatives and Wildrose. Kim TrynacityCBC 
A provincial arm of a Prairie protest movement that ascended to the role of Official Opposition in the federal Parliament is now officially registered with Elections Alberta as a political party.
The Reform Party of Alberta filed its papers and a supporting petition containing signatures.It joins the list of political parties that can legallyraise fundsand field candidates in future provincial elections.
We went to rallies. We went to coffee shops. We stood at hockey games football games said party organizer and leader Randy Thorsteinson whose political pedigree goes back decades.
Thorsteinson was leader of the Alberta Social Credit Party before creating and leading the Alberta Alliance the forerunner to the Wildrose Party. Hes now pinning his hopes on a new although familiar party for provincial voters.
Were looking at creating a new party thats going to be a home for principled conservatives across the province he said.
Thorsteinsonsaid hebelieves the Wildrose is trying to be all things to all people.
He said that when he waspresident of the Red Deer chapter of the Reform Party of Canada in the s he tried to convince leader Preston Manning to create a provincial Reform party.
He wouldnt do it. He just wanted to focus on federal politics said Thorsteinson who is convinced Albertans are hungry for a new conservative choice.
Thorsteinsons move comes in the midst of a battle between the centrist Progressive Conservatives and the more right leaning Wildrose to become the choice of voters seeking an alternative to the governing NDP.
Then theres Jason Kenney the federal Conservative MP said to be pondering a move to seek the leadership of the Alberta Progressive Conservatives.
I think its just a return of Jim Prentice. We already went down that road Thorsteinson said.
I dont think Jason Kenney is going to make a difference and thats why were doing what were doing.
Ruth Kelly publisher of Alberta Venture magazine waded in on Twitter with a notsosubtle jab at the leadership of Jim Prentice.
Jason Kenney for PC leadership Kelly wrote. Cause the last federal Conservative flighted in to save the PCs and unite the right worked out so well.
Jason Kenney for PC leadership. Cause the last federal Conservative flighted in to save the PCs unite the right worked out so well
Former PC MLA and cabinet minister Thomas Lukaszuk said news of Kenneys possible entry into provincial politics was all the talk in Calgary earlier this week.
Lukaszuk was among invited guests at an annual preStampede garden partyTuesday hosted by business leader Brett Wilson.
Kenney was also a guest and he shook everyones hand except mine Lukaszuk said.
We didnt have the pleasure to talk to each other but we acknowledged each others presence.
The two have a rocky history dating back to the days when both handled cabinet posts withimmigration portfolios.
In June Kenneywas caught sending an email to Conservative MPs referring to Lukaszuk asa complete and utter ahole.Kenney later apologized.
Lukaszuk said he hasmoved on since then but pointed out there are clear policy differences between the Alberta PC party and the federal Conservatives.
He Kenney would have to convince a lot of PC party supporters why an individual who voraciously for the last two decades worked against the PC party should now lead the party.
Its for these reasons that a merger between the Wildrose and PCs is a pointless exercise said Thorsteinson. He said the history of bad blood between the two parties is too deep.
They are so acrimonious towards each other that half of the members of each party wont join with the others he said.
Terminallyill man happy with assisteddying bill but happier he wont be relying on it
Golf tournament organizer sorry if anyone was offended by Rachel Notley target
December is the National Day of Remembrance and Action on Violence Against Women in Canada.Established in by Parliament this day marks the anniversary of the murders in of women at lcole Polytechnique de Montral.
Lee Lorch is a mathematician social activist and a retired member of York Universitys faculty.From Lorch worked as a mathematician for the US National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. He married Grace Lonergan a school teacher from Boston on Continue reading 
Rabbi Wolf Gunther Plaut was a Reform rabbi and author. An important figure in the history of the Jewish community in Toronto he served as rabbi of Holy Blossom Temple from to and later as a Rabbi Emeritus Continue reading 
Several Democratic senators are separating themselves from their leadership and encouraging President Obama to cut Social Security benefits by raising the retirement age in order to keep the entitlement solvent.
My sons are and neither of them thinks Social Security is around for them. I want to make sure that it is said Carper Its going to have to be a combination of very modest adjustments in benefits very modest and some frankly fairly modest changes with respect to revenues.
Obama will deliver a speech at George Washington University on Wednesday about debt reduction and has come under heavy pressure from labor unions and liberal groups not to endorse Social Security cuts as part of his plan.
He is not expected to call for a Social Security overhaul but Democratic senators suggest that he could get bipartisan backing if he chose to do so and took the lead. The fiscal commission he appointed more than a year ago has already laid out a roadmap.
Carper noted that the commission chaired by former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles and former Sen. Alan Simpson RWyo. called for a gradual increase in the retirement age to by and by .
Carper and other Democrats willing to consider an increase in the retirement age stress the savings should go to prolonging the life of the safetynet program and not to reducing the deficit.
Feinstein an influential voice in the Senate Democratic Conference could also support a gradual increase in the retirement age.
Depending on how its done yes Feinstein told The Hill last month. If you change it a month a year beginning in the year its benign relatively benign Feinstein said. The earlier you make the changes the easier they are.
Anybody on Social Security today under any of the reform plans Ive seen for Social Security will continue to get the benefits promised but the people coming on will get a little less than they would otherwise get under current law Lieberman said. Theyll get less because right now Social Security is on schedule to run out of money so that would lead to enormous cuts in Social Security.
Youve got to be willing to put everything on the table he told The Hill recently.
Warner said the argument from his liberal colleagues that retirement benefits should be sacrosanct ignores longterm fiscal projections.
Its just kind of hard to argue when some of this is math workers for every one retiree years ago and now three workers for every retiree he said noting that life expectancy has increased nearly years since President Franklin Roosevelt started the program.
But Senate Republicans negotiating a broad deficit reduction package will insist that it include Social Security reform.
Although Social Security has a . trillion surplus the balance is theoretical since the federal government has borrowed from the programs trust fund to pay for other priorities. Adding to its fiscal problems the program went cash negative last year when it began paying out more in benefits than it accepted in payroll taxes.
You cant just borrow the money from the international financial community unless you arrange for its future Coburn said. Unless the markets see we have taken care and solved our longterm budget problems it will lead to a significantly increased cost of borrowing by not fixing Social Security.
He argues the federal government will have to take on more debt to pay off the obligations it owes to the Social Security trust fund.
Several Senate Democrats have signaled theyre willing to look at adjustments to Social Security benefits in combination with raising the cap on income subject to payroll taxes. One idea is to raise the cap only for individuals earning more than a year and families making more than .
But they are reluctant to go out on a limb before the president or their colleagues have publicly unveiled specific proposals.
I dont want to exclude the possibility said Sen. Carl LevinCarl LevinFight for taxpayers draws fire Gun debate shows value of the filibuster House wont vote on Navy shipnaming restrictions MORE DMich. when asked about raising the retirement age. I dont want to commit to any possibilities because its much too fluid and much too big an issue. It involves a lot of other issues.
A pivotal figure is Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad DN.D. a member of the Gang of Six who has kept his intentions quiet.
I just dont think its wise for me to begin that discussion in the hallway he said when asked about cutting Social Security benefits as part of a broader plan for extending its solvency.
Social Security is projected to pay percent of benefits until . After that point tax income would be sufficient to pay about percent of scheduled benefits.
Hillary Clinton is careless and reckless with Americas secrets that is the essence of FBI.
The contents of this site are Capitol Hill Publishing Corp. a subsidiary of News Communications Inc.
While the CFDTs reaction to the text was quite positive the CGT and Force ouvrire FO were much more critical. The CFDT saw the proposal as a step towards a highquality social dialogue and welcomed the fact that workers employed in very small businesses would finally be in a position to put forward representatives. The confederation nonetheless expressed concern about the level of resources that would be allocated to elected representatives for carrying out their mission.
The CGT reaction was much more virulent claiming that the proposed legislation was permeated with employer dogma. Above all else this confederation denounced plans to relax the system of worker representation from which only the employer stood to gain adding that Medef will be well pleased with these provisions which amount more or less to what it failed to obtain through the crosssectoral bargaining.
The reform which was prepared after the failure in January of negotiations between the two sides of industry is aimed at simplifying rules regarded by the government as excessively formal and complex.
Christophe Degryse 
Jeremy Waddington 
It all started when Hannah Shaw came across an orphaned kitten. At only weeks old the kitten was far too young to survive on its own and Shaw couldnt bring herself to take it to the pound. So she brought the cat home and started researching on how to care for the unweaned cat. 
Belarussian president Alexander Lukashenko has got a lot of people naked and hes got a lot of explain to do. Or does he Lukashenko was making a speech earlier this week about new technology in the workplace. A slip of the tongue made the last European dictators speech take a rather unexpected turn. An 
Michael Phelps has made history again as the first U.S. swimmer in history to qualify for five Olympics. 
It has only been less than a day since the terrorist attacks in Istanbul. More than people were killed as well as wounded from the suicide bombings at the Attaturk Airport. From Amsterdam to Australia landmarks across the world were light up in red and white in solidarity of Istanbul. In Germany the 
To use this website cookies must be enabled in your browser. To enable cookies follow the instructions for your browser below.
th March After a long struggle the governments Health and Social Care Bill has become law ushering in an era of major reform for the NHS in England. What are the main changes and what will they mean for patients Read our FAQs.
The government says that with rising demand for healthcare and one of the tightest funding settlements the NHS has ever faced it is no longer acceptable to go on doing the same things in the same way.
It says that while the NHS is a world leader in many fields in others it lags behind other major European countries.
Ministers have also committed themselves to greater patient choice and allowing the private sector to offer healthcare providing it meets NHS costs.
The changes only apply in England because health is administered separately in Scotland Wales and Northern Ireland.
The Bill included a number of farreaching and controversial proposals including abolishing Primary Care Trusts handing a substantial part of the health commissioning budget to GPs and allowing any willing provider to offer NHS services.
The Bill faced opposition for a number of reasons from health professionals and unions. Among the concerns was whether opening up the NHS to competition amounted to part privatisation. There was also concern about the pace of change at a time when the NHS was being asked to make large efficiency savings. A House of Commons committee warned that the government risked testing services to the limit.
In April despite the Bill already being before the House of Commons the Health Secretary announced that its passage would be put on hold so that ministers could listen to engage with and learn from experts patients and frontline staff within the NHS.
A two month reassessment of the proposals led by the NHS Future Forum led to a number of changes in the Bill. Despite this the government faced substantial opposition in parliament particularly in the House of Lords.
One of the most controversial aspects of the legislation is the removal of the duty of the Secretary of State to provide a national health service.
The Department of Health says that in future the Health Secretary will instead have a duty to promote a health service while frontline organisations will take on the role of commissioning services directly.
BootsWebMD does not provide medical advice diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
This website uses cookies. Our Cookies information page details how we use cookies and how to manage them. To provide even greater transparency and choice we are working on a number of other cookierelated enhancements. More information 
Incoming President Rodrigo Duterte has unveiled an point economic agenda designed to attract more investors and bring about real inclusive growth to the people.
Time for a more revitalized economy that promotes business and likewise spreads benefits down to the masses.
Likewise Duterte has announced a social reform program that would improve discipline minimize alcohol consumption and help lessen crime.
Yes to a social reform program that could prove beneficial to Philippine society in the long run observing the democratic Constitutional principle of regulation not prohibition.
Economic Committee member Carlos Sonny Dominguez a prominent businessman and former agriculture secretary outlined Dutertes point economic agenda in a press conference noting that the clean elections and Dutertes call for national unity and healing have already triggered a percent uptick in the stock market.
Eightpoint agenda should boost business confidence and trigger economic growth.
Firstly Duterte says he will continue and maintain the current macroeconomic policies apparently to ensure stability.
But there will be reforms in tax revenue collection and along with bureaucratic reforms within the Bureau of Internal Revenue BIR and the Bureau of Customs BOC he says.
Secondly the Duterte administration will accelerate infrastructure spending by addressing among others major bottlenecks in the PrivatePublic Partnership PPP program setting aside percent of the countrys Gross Domestic Product GDP to infrastructure spending.
Thirdly it will ensure attractiveness of the Philippines to foreign direct investments by addressing restrictive economic provisions in the Constitution and our laws and enhancing competitiveness i.e. ease of doing in the economy.
Lesser restrictions on foreign investments as in other countries and more business promotion.
Fourth Team Duterte also vows to pursue a genuine agricultural development strategy by providing support services to small farmers to increase their productivity improve their market access and develop the agricultural value chain by forging partnership with agribusiness firms.
Agriculture to get a muchneeded boost the Philippines being an agricultural country.
Fifth it will address bottlenecks and improve administrative and management system.
Sixth Duterte vows to strengthen our basic education system and provide scholarship for tertiary education which are relevant to the needs of private sector employees.
Seventh the new administration will improve the income tax system to enable those who earn little to have more money in their pockets.
Eight Duterte will expand and improve implementation of the Conditional Cash Transfer CCT program.
Under the point economic agenda Dominguez says the Duterte government will also promote tourism in rural areas and expand PhilHealth coverage for the people.
As to the planned reforms in government bureaucracy the Duterte administration vows to vigorously pursue the prosecution of corrupt government officials and employees.
Meanwhile Duterte spokesman Peter Tiu Lavia says Duterte plans to improve discipline by imposing a p.m. curfew for children and a midnight cutoff for drinking and serving of liquor by establishments among others.
nodesi.parentNode.setAttributedatadisqusidentifier nodesi.getAttributerel s.src disqus.comforums disqusshortname count.js
For at least the next decade if not way beyond the decisions that Chinas leaders make will reverberate far past the Asian powers borders. If China modernizes its society particularly its economy the implications will be important for the United States. 
That includes a major exporting state such as Texas. Companies located here have long done business in China. Texas Instruments for example started a Beijing office in . The Richardsonbased company now has offices in cities across China.
So it is more than passing news in Texas when Chinese authorities discuss changing repressive practices that have long kept the country outside the international mainstream. The same is true when they talk about making it easier for private firms to participate in the Chinese economy the worlds second largest. 
Chinese leaders made big news last week by announcing a point plan of reforms. Its still just a plan the changes will matter only if they are enacted. U.S. leaders should remain skeptical until Chinese authorities practice what they have announced.
Still there were headlinegrabbers. The biggest were the proposals to relax the nations onechild policy and to curtail the use of reeducation labor camps. For decades these policies have limited the rights of families and threatened the freedom to dissent. They were a clear affront to human rights.
China now proposes to let urban families have two children if one of the parents is an only child. Today such families can have two children only if both parents are only children. The hope is that this reform leads to a broader overhaul of Chinas restrictions on families.
The reeducation camps have been around since the s. In the West dissent is a vital part of the democratic process. Those in power listen and learn from criticism. In China criticism of the Communist regime is treated as tantamount to a crime. Abolishing reeducation camps is a first step toward freedom of speech.
Economically Chinese leaders appear interested in stimulating private investment. For example they propose letting private investors with enough capital set up banks. The country is also aiming to create a deposit insurance system to protect bank depositors.
From a U.S. perspective the more that China liberalizes its economy the more it creates vibrant markets. Obviously some of that has already happened. But a more open China will synchronize more closely with the international economy. That boosts Americans investment confidence and helps make the political relationship less tenuous.
If that happens Texas companies and others in the U.S. will be more willing to take risks in China. The reforms themselves have yet to take place but at least China is making the right noises.
Mark Cuban discusses investigation of Hillary Clinton with small dig at Donald Trump
To post a comment log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network please consider writing a letter to the editor.
Signalling possible midcourse correction in the economic policy Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that even more than reforms India needed improved implementation. 
In an over minute speech before a select audience on how his government proposed to tackle the challenges in the economy Mr. Modi did not refer to the Goods and Services Tax labour or land reforms even once. He instead outlined how his government is plugging leakages in social expenditure building infrastructure and focussing on improving implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme MGNREGS the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and the National Food Security Act.
Mere announcement of policies achieves little Even more than reformed policies we need transformed execution he said. 
The National Food Security Act was passed in he said but its nationwide implementation had been by his government. We have drastically reduced leakages in the MGNREGA and ensured that money reaches those for whom it is intended he said at a Bloomberg event.
Hitting out at the critics the Prime Minister said that for India to be at the top of global growth table was an unusual situation. Obviously there are some who find that difficult to digest and come up with imaginative and fanciful ideas to belittle that achievement.
He said his government had not been lucky with both global trade and growth which being low had not helped stimulate exports. Similarly the government has had little luck with monsoons and both being drought years yet food grains production has remained much higher and inflation much lower than in the last comparable drought year he said. 
He said the StandUp India scheme to be launched on April would provide entrepreneurship loans to women and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
Mr. Modi defended his pet initiative Make In India and promised to remove all distortions in the tax structure disincentivising labour employment. Corporate tax structure has favoured capital intensive productioncreated an artificial bias against labour. He announced that it has been decided that the database of scores in the Government and Public Sector Undertakings recruitment examinations will be made available with candidate information open to all employers wherever consent is given by the candidate.
From September SEND reforms have come into place to ensure children and young people with special educational needs or disabilities get the support they need. But what will this actually involve
Learning Difficulty Assessments and Statements of special educational needs will be replaced. Each child will get given a plan for all their educational health and social needs. These will have a bigger focus on future aspirations to help children and young people achieve their goals. The different organisations that provide educational health and care support will have to work more closely together to make sure children and young people get the best support.Local offer
Local authorities will now be able to provide a list of what services are available in any given local area called the Local Offer. In the next few months you will be able to find out what is applicable to your situation including support within schools specialist health leisure activities and transport facilities. Services provided by KIDS will be included if they can be found within the local authority. Search for KIDS services in your area.Personal budgets
Parents with a child or young person on an EHC plan can now request to own the budget for their childs needs and pay direct to the services themselves. The amount of money provided to each parent depends on the local authoritys assessment of the child or young persons needs. This allows families flexibility to choose the services themselves.
Independent support worker Government funded independent workers will be available to support parents for the next years through the changes. These can be applied for through the local authority.
Find out more Guide for young peopleGuide for parentsGuide for organisations and local authorities
Higher social assistance rates along with other changes announced last year will be implemented as early as April Yukon Health and Social Services Minister Brad Cathers says.
The proposed per cent rate increases the first social assistance raises since were announced with great fanfare in November .
But before those rate changes could go ahead Cathers said the Yukon had to wait until the federal government agreed to match the increases in First Nation programs it funds.
I can say with confidence that what we announced late last year will be what in fact is implementedCathers told CBC News. Were simply waiting on their implementation of it.
The federal government has indicated it expects to have the changes made near the end of April he said.
And of course Health and Social Services was ready to go on this months ago. So we look forward to this being in place very soon.
The territorial government also wants to bring in financial incentives to help recipients find work and stay off social assistance.
Cathers has proposed allowing those who find work to continue collecting partial social assistance benefits for up to three years.
He also wants to eliminate the current clawback period on working recipients paycheques for the first three months of employment.
The change to the earnedincome exemption is a step beyond what any other Canadian jurisdiction has done to provide a financial incentive to keep people in the workforce he said.
The Yukon government expects to spend about . million a year on the social assistance changes. Cathers said that money has been set aside and he expects to implement the program in the next month.
Parks Canada underwater archeologists explore the wreck off the coast of Nunavut
First Nations teens in the Yukon have taken traditional hunting paths and turned them into acclaimed mountain bike trails.
Sebastian Jones of Dawson City had to haul a bunch of gear across the icecovered Yukon River. He hit upon a novel and very Canadian solution.
Darrell Otto breeds about Chinook salmon every year a number he hopes to quadruple in the next few years using a newly upgraded salmon hatchery.
Is Social Security on its way to bankruptcy crashing down in Most likely not. There are good reasons to believe that the much discussed crisis has been politically manufactured.
Conservative politicians and think tanks call for reform through privatization shifting part of contributors accounts into unprotected stockmarket funds playing to the hopes of brokerage houses which stand to make hundreds of millions in fees and commissions and antiwelfare state conservative ideologues who argue that marketdriven private programs are inherently superior to those in the public sector.
History should encourage real doubt about the gloomy longterm predictions President Bushs new commission offers concerning the future of the system. Imagine economists in when the federal budget was around billion making a serious prediction about Social Security and the U.S. economy in Or analysts in making such a prediction about Even in could they have foreseen a multitrillion dollar economy or the impact of computerization energy consumption and medical advances all of which have dramatically influenced economic and population growth
These examples reveal the riskiness of making adjustments now to prevent a collapse of the system late in the s. Given the increase in the velocity of change in a globalized economy policies based on such predictions like legislation to mandate balanced budgets can only serve to force governments into inflexible policies incapable of responding to rapid change.
It is more logical to conclude as Social Securitys defenders argue that the systems trust funds are safe far into the twentyfirst century. Supporting this position are continued asset growth and most important a projected longterm decrease in need in the postbaby boomer era as declining birthrates catch up to declining death rates. Unlike programs in other industrial countries that serve as the primary source of retirement income Social Security in the United States has long functioned as a supplementary safety net. It is designed to complement a wide variety of employerunion and publicemployee pension programs based in the stock and bond markets.
In the first half of the twentieth century a large and powerful private insurance industry strengthened the opposition of employers to extending social insurance. World War II then produced tax legislation that gave employers a powerful incentive to reduce tax liability by establishing pension plans. ColdWar tax policy and the antilabor TaftHartley Act of then induced a weakened postwar labor movement to focus its collective bargaining on fringe benefits primarily pension and health insurance plans for members rather than on such political action as improving Social Security. Taken together these factors produced the present multitier publicprivate system in the United States.
Even so for tens of millions of lowincome people Social Security is their only pension. They are the ones who need relief from sharp increases in the s and s in payroll taxes. At the same time costofliving adjustments have been reduced and the retirement age set higher. Attacks on the system over the last twenty years by the same forces who today champion privatization have made it more regressive for younger and lower income workers.
Liberal and labor defenders of Social Security now need to do more than merely contend as many do now that the system isnt broke so why fix it For example they could advocate supplementing Social Security trust funds through general revenues a step most of the systems architects foresaw. This would reduce regressive payroll taxes and provide a real and lasting tax cut while making the system more equitable for younger workers.
Liberals and labor should insist that the partial privatization pushed by the Bush administration would very likely produce a statesponsored version of the mutual funds of the s in which millions invested for their retirement only to see the funds crash with the stock market in .
If history is any guide the warnings about Social Security going under can be discounted. Instead we should seize the opportunity to enact reforms that will make the existing system more just not transform it into something it was never intended to be.
Norman Markowitz is a member of the history faculty at Rutgers University in New Brunswick N.J. and a writer for the History News Service.
The owner of this website www.thenews.coop has banned your access based on your browsers signature beaeddua.
By Governor Tommy Thompson RWI and Dr. William J. Bennett
but because of our vast experience in trying different methods. But success it has
The Government is looking at transferring the ownership of some Housing New Zealand houses in Tauranga and Invercargill to registered Community Housing Providers CHPs.
This is part of the Governments social housing reforms to improve the range of housing providers and services for New Zealanders who need social housing assistance.
You can find out more about the Social Housing Reform Programme external link here.
The Government is looking at transferring ownership of some Housing New Zealand houses in Tauranga and Invercargill to registered Community Housing Providers. You can find information for Housing New Zealand tenants about the proposed transfers by clicking the links below.
The Governments Social Housing Reform Programme SHRP is focused on the development of a more diverse supply of social and affordable housing to meet the diversity of tenants needs. An important aspect of the SHRP is the transfer of Housing New Zealand homes to community housing providers CHPs.
The first major milestone in theSocial Housing Reform Programme external link relates to social housing in the Tmaki region of Auckland.
The Government transferred ownership and management of all Housing New Zealand properties in Tmaki to the Tmaki Regeneration Company TRC on March .
Interested in our home ownership products Call us between am and pm Monday to Friday on 
Concerned about suspicious or fraudulent activity Call our confidential TELL HNZ number.
The NHS is undergoing continuous reform in its structure its governance and how it relates to other sectors. We evaluate these changes examine what they mean at the front line and look to identify the opportunities and potential problems they create.
In the launch debate of our new Daring to Ask series we recently brought together a panel of experts from across the health and care sector to examine the future of.
Following the first in our debate series Daring to ask jointly convened by the Nuffield Trust and the NHS Confederation we sat down for an interview with Dr Keith McNeil.
Dr David Branford explains what has changed for pharmacy in the last months.
Professor Keith Willett outlines the role pharmacists could play in urgent and emergency care.
Keith Willet NHS England presents on pharmacys role within the Urgent and Emergency Care review.
Dr Judith Smith Nuffield Trust on why pharmacy needs to act now or miss out on delivering frontline care.
Matt Sutton explores the role of financial incentives in general practice and primary care.
Dr Bruno Holthof Antwerp Hospital Network describes the lessons he learnt from turning around an underperforming hospital
Paul Mears Yeovil District Hospital NHS Foundation Trust describes how to best meet the needs of the patient
This interactive chart shows prescribing spend per person in the UK between and .
This interactive chart shows the number of prescription items dispensed in the UK between and .
This chart shows the number of day only hospital beds available and occupied in England from to .
This interactive chart shows expenditure on public and private health care in the UK between and .
This chart shows the number of overnight hospital beds available and occupied in England from to 
This chart shows the funding gap in Welsh health care expenditure in following savings made by 
This chart shows the projected contribution of savings on the Welsh health care funding gap in .
This chart shows the effect of population chronic conditions and staff pay on projected spend on acute services
Dr Martin Bardsley Nuffield Trust explores recent Nuffield Trust research into health care innovations
Holly Holder Nuffield Trust describes the key findings of a survey of six clinical commissioning groups
Be the first to hear about our latest news publications events and multimedia.
The Nuffield Trust is an independent health charity. We aim to improve the quality of health care in the UK by providing evidencebased research and policy analysis and informing and generating debate.
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our User Agreement and Privacy Policy.
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our Privacy Policy and User Agreement for details.
Clipping is a handy way to collect and organize the most important slides from a presentation. You can keep your great finds in clipboards organized around topics.
Please choose whether or not you want other users to be able to see on your profile that this library is a favorite of yours.
You may have already requested this item. Please select Ok if you would like to proceed with this request anyway.
WorldCat is the worlds largest library catalog helping you find library materials online. Learn more 
Changes to the States care system will result in payments to foster families ceasing where a young person is not involved in education or training once they turn .
The aftercare changes are due to come into force on August st but have not yet been publicly announced.
Aftercare is the term given to support for young people in State care after they turn . 
Under the plans a national weekly aftercare allowance will be divided between young people involved in education or training and their carers. 
The payment would cease where young people were not involved in education or training. 
Instead these young people would be guided towards drawing social welfare and seeking housing from local authorities or the private rented market.
Groups representing young people in care have expressed alarm that the changes may place vulnerable young people at risk of falling through the cracks of the care system. 
Jennifer Gargan of Epic a group which supports young people in care said she supported overall plans to standardise aftercare arrangements. 
However she said those not in education or training required even greater guidance and support. 
Its shortsighted if we dont look after them. They are the young people at greatest risk of homelessness. They are more likely to be unemployed she said. 
Many are lonely and isolated. It can be hard enough for a young person to make their way in their world but if you dont have the backup of a family its harder still.
He said the agency has been in discussion with housing and social welfare services to ensure supports are available to anyone who need them.
At present the level of aftercare support varies dramatically in different parts of the State. 
In some areas foster families receive up to a week to care for young people in aftercare while in other areas financial support can stop altogether at years. 
Similarly education grants for young people leaving care who are progressing on to further education can vary between and .
The move to standardise payments is based on an aftercare policy drafted in recent years aimed at enhancing and standardising services. 
Under the policy changes young people in care from the age of onwards should receive support to prepare them for leaving care.
Latest figures indicate there are gaps in services for young people of this age.
Some per cent of children aged between and had preparation for leaving care and aftercare plan at the first quarter of this year. 
In addition per cent of children aged between and did not have an allocated aftercare worker.
Charities Act is strong but many of its provisions longfingered despite scandals 
Young adults with experience of Irish residential care came together with children still in the system for an agenda day of pizza and chat to hear what they think needs to change 
A personal guided tour to the best scoops and stories every day in The Wall Street Journal.
Washington Wireis one of the oldest standing features in American journalism. Since the Wirelaunched on Sept. the Journal has offered readers an informal look at the capital. Now online the Wire provides a succession of glimpses at whats happening behind hot stories and warnings of what to watch for in the days ahead.Washington Wire also includes Think Tank our home for outside analysis from policy and political thinkers.
Therefore SOLIDAR is launching today July at the premises of the International Labour Organisations ILO International Training Centre and with support by ACTRAV the ILO Bureau for Workers Activities itsSocial Progress Lab a space to develop an alternative vision of our social Europe where high social safeguards are implemented and member states are developing together for more upward convergence and more equality for Europes citizens.
The Social Progress Lab starts with a Symposium taking place today in Turin which hosts a group of academics and independent thinkers. Focusing on the introduction of social safeguards in the Unions policies and economic governance the selected participants will present and discuss their policy alternatives to create higher quality jobs more inclusive growth and social investment.
Participants are discussing their academic papers under the supervision and guidance of our special advisor Dr. Lieve Fransen former Director for Social Policies DG EMPL European Commission and the scientific advisory group which consists of Dr. Rmi Bazillier Universit dOrlans Dr. Giovanni Cozzi University of Greenwich Dr. Amandine Crespy Universit Libre de Bruxelles Prof. Dr. Ferdi De Ville Ghent University and Dr. Angela Wigger Radboud University Nijmegen.
Todays symposium is the first step in a process that will lead to the presentation of an edited volume at the European Parliament in December . With this publication SOLIDAR aims to present constructive policy proposals that will safeguard and encourage social progress in Europe.
Find out about job opportunities and internships at Social Platform and our members
To use this website cookies must be enabled in your browser. To enable cookies follow the instructions for your browser below.
On April the main changes set out in the Health Social Care Act came into force. What will this mean for the NHS Read our commentary and analysis on the latest NHS reforms.
Multispecialty community providers and primary and acute care systems Lessons on developing these new care models
Martha Nussbaum the Ernst Freund Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics in the Law School Philosophy Department and the Divinity School has been awarded the A.SK prize by the Wissenschaftszentrum Berlin fr Sozialforschung. The award pays tribute to social system reformers.
The A.SK honors Nussbaums work on the foundations of social and global justice which she has pursued through the study of the capabilities approach and the Human Development and Capability Association of which Nussbaum and Amartya Sen of Harvard University are founding presidents.
Nussbaum has been integral in the development of the capabilities approach which criticizes the traditional focus on quality of life in terms of GNP per capita which hides huge inequalities within states. Instead it focuses on peoples actual capabilities within the constraints of their societies. She has focused particularly on the relationship between poverty and gender inequality which is the subject of her books Women and Human Development and Frontiers of Justice.
Women the rural poor and other subordinated groups are usually injured by policies focused on growth alone since they rarely control the fruits of a nations general prosperity. Nussbaum said. My work on the capabilities approach is meant to change the emphasis of the development process so that the first question asked is always What does this policy mean for the ability of people to live flourishing lives 
Along with the recognition for her work Nussbaum will receive the award with which the A.SK prize is endowed by Angela and Shu Kai Chan Chinese entrepreneurs with strong ties to Germany. 
As with my Grawemeyer Award in I intend to give a substantial part of it to the University of Chicago Law School because that is the place that has supported my work and allowed it to flourish said Nussbaum. After consulting with Dean Levmore I have decided to give it to a fund to support a new program of student summer internships in developing countries. I also plan to give significant part of it to the HDCA. After that I will buy a few pairs of shoes.
Nussbaum will be honored with the award at a ceremony on Feb. in Berlin after which she will give a lecture on her work at WZB. 
Nussbaum is an Associate in the Classics Department and the Political Science Department a Member of the Committee on Southern Asian Studies and a Board Member of the Human Rights Program. She is the founder and Coordinator of the Center for Comparative Constitutionalism and President of the Human Development and Capability Association.
University of Chicago Law School East th Street Chicago Illinois .. ContactDirections Accessibility
To use this website cookies must be enabled in your browser. To enable cookies follow the instructions for your browser below.
Back during the presidential campaign Mitt Romney tried to make the argument that President Obama was soft on welfare reform. He missed the target. Welfare abuse has shifted to Social Security Disability.
An argument can be made that it was humane to expand the SSD acceptance rate after the housing crash of . There were no jobs to be had. But we are in recovery nowand scamming the system is never a good idea. The neighbors inevitably figure out who is gaming the system. The stories grow and become exaggeratedIve heard specific tales of abuse all over America on my road trips. Faith in the federal government is shattered as a result.
And so the system needs to be reformed. It needs to be prioritized just as the VA disability system does. The yearold construction who hurt his back has my sympathyId be in favor of lowering the eligibility age for both Medicare and Social Security a few years in such cases. But there are plenty of nonbackbreaking jobs that construction worker can hold in the interim.
Indeed in all but the most severe cases there are public service jobs that can be done as a way of paying backand a way of culling the scam artists. All too often the scammers find support on the left from people who believe that free enterprise is inherently unfair and the victims even the unworthy poor deserve any help they can get. That sort of thinking is insidious and morally deficient.
Once again those of us who believe in government activismwho believe in universal health care infrastructure development a much better system of education and helping the truly needyhave a responsibility to make sure that the government we have is clean and efficient.
Joe Klein is TIMEs political columnist and author of six books most recently Politics Lost. His weekly TIME column In the Arena covers national and international affairs. 
We use cookies to provide you with the best experience on our website find out how we use cookies.By continuing to browse our website you are agreeing to our use of cookies.CLOSE THIS MESSAGE
The Law Centre today welcomed the Social Development Ministers announcement that he has secured changes to the way Universal Credit can be paid in Northern Ireland.
Speaking ahead of giving evidence to the Social Development Committee on the Welfare Reform Bill today October Law Centre Director Les Allamby said The Ministers announcement yesterday represents a step towards tailoring welfare reform to Northern Irelands circumstances but more can still be done to improve upon the Welfare Reform Bill currently before the Social Development Committee. It is imperative that the proposed changes will work effectively in practice for Northern Ireland
We are not looking to devise an alternative social security system but rather to ensure that the proposals designed for Britain take into account the specific circumstances and local needs of Northern Ireland Mr Allamby told the Social Development Committee today.
The Ministers announcement that the housing costs of Universal Credit will be paid direct to landlords and that there is scope for payment of Universal Credit to be split within the household and paid fortnightly unlike in Britain will make a positive difference to those affected by these changes he said.
He went on while flexibilities have been achieved on some issues the Committee needs to closely examine what other steps can be taken to protect households affected by the changes. For example the Committee needs to carefully scrutinise the under occupation penalty for people in public rented housing the level of conditionality and sanctions proposed under the Welfare Reform Bill and the lack of childcare provision across Northern Ireland.
Mr Allamby also called on the Social Development Committee to ensure that there is an opportunity for comprehensive scrutiny of the regulations that will ultimately implement the welfare reform legislation as this is where lies the scope and flexibility for things to be done differently in a Northern Ireland context.
The Minister announced on October that changes had been secured to the way Universal Credit can be paid to reflect Northern Irelands unique circumstances.
The Welfare Reform Bill is largely an enabling Bill which means it only provides an outline of Universal Credit with detail left to regulations still to be drafted.
Labour has dismissed Health Secretary Jeremy Hunts billion a year reforms to social care labelling them as modest and timid.
The plans which are due to come into effect in April include a cap on care costs more than double the recommended by the independent Dilnot Commissions review of the system.
In addition the assets threshold beneath which people receive meanstested support to meet care bills will rise from to .
On the other hand more people will be hit by inheritance tax under the plans. This is because of a threeyear extension of the freeze in the threshold or for couples above which theinheritance taxkicks in at .
Mr Hunt declared the changes represent a new era in support for older people although Shadow Health Secretary Andy Burnham didnt share this view.
Responding in the CommonsMr Burnhamacknowledged the current uncapped regime was a cruel lottery where people go in to later life with everything they have worked for on the roulette table.
But he also said that while the plans would make the system fairer they were a missed opportunity for a more radical shakeup.
This is a step forward but it is a faltering one. The House has been presented with a flawed prospectus today said Mr Burnham.
Vulnerable people will still face rising care charges homes will still be lost.
The Shadow Health Secretary said it was ironic that the coalition was now increasinginheritance taxes to pay for its plan something which he claimed fails to meet the challenge of the ageing society in the UK.
In his message to the Commons Mr Hunt said the current system sent out the wrong message because any savings may only disappear in a puff of smoke if they were wiped out by care costs.
Whilst the level will temper rather than dispel anxiety for most around care costs it is an important principle that no one should be left to face spiralling care needs alone. The rise in the level of the means test will also provide much needed additional help towards the costs of care.The proposals alongside planned legal reforms currently being considered by Parliament begin to build a better social care system in England. However the fact remains that thousands of older people who need help are still not getting the support they desperately need.That is why wewant the Government to also address the fundamental issue of funding a decent state care system in England.
Age UK Tavis House Tavistock Square London WCH NA. Registered charity number . Company number . Age UK Group andor its National Partners Age NI Age Scotland and Age Cymru . All Rights Reserved
Higher social assistance rates along with other changes announced last year will be implemented as early as April Yukon Health and Social Services Minister Brad Cathers says.
The proposed per cent rate increases the first social assistance raises since were announced with great fanfare in November .
But before those rate changes could go ahead Cathers said the Yukon had to wait until the federal government agreed to match the increases in First Nation programs it funds.
I can say with confidence that what we announced late last year will be what in fact is implementedCathers told CBC News. Were simply waiting on their implementation of it.
The federal government has indicated it expects to have the changes made near the end of April he said.
And of course Health and Social Services was ready to go on this months ago. So we look forward to this being in place very soon.
The territorial government also wants to bring in financial incentives to help recipients find work and stay off social assistance.
Cathers has proposed allowing those who find work to continue collecting partial social assistance benefits for up to three years.
He also wants to eliminate the current clawback period on working recipients paycheques for the first three months of employment.
The change to the earnedincome exemption is a step beyond what any other Canadian jurisdiction has done to provide a financial incentive to keep people in the workforce he said.
The Yukon government expects to spend about . million a year on the social assistance changes. Cathers said that money has been set aside and he expects to implement the program in the next month.
Parks Canada underwater archeologists explore the wreck off the coast of Nunavut
First Nations teens in the Yukon have taken traditional hunting paths and turned them into acclaimed mountain bike trails.
Sebastian Jones of Dawson City had to haul a bunch of gear across the icecovered Yukon River. He hit upon a novel and very Canadian solution.
Darrell Otto breeds about Chinook salmon every year a number he hopes to quadruple in the next few years using a newly upgraded salmon hatchery.
th March After a long struggle the governments Health and Social Care Bill has become law ushering in an era of major reform for the NHS in England. What are the main changes and what will they mean for patients Read our FAQs.
The government says that with rising demand for healthcare and one of the tightest funding settlements the NHS has ever faced it is no longer acceptable to go on doing the same things in the same way.
It says that while the NHS is a world leader in many fields in others it lags behind other major European countries.
Ministers have also committed themselves to greater patient choice and allowing the private sector to offer healthcare providing it meets NHS costs.
The changes only apply in England because health is administered separately in Scotland Wales and Northern Ireland.
The Bill included a number of farreaching and controversial proposals including abolishing Primary Care Trusts handing a substantial part of the health commissioning budget to GPs and allowing any willing provider to offer NHS services.
The Bill faced opposition for a number of reasons from health professionals and unions. Among the concerns was whether opening up the NHS to competition amounted to part privatisation. There was also concern about the pace of change at a time when the NHS was being asked to make large efficiency savings. A House of Commons committee warned that the government risked testing services to the limit.
In April despite the Bill already being before the House of Commons the Health Secretary announced that its passage would be put on hold so that ministers could listen to engage with and learn from experts patients and frontline staff within the NHS.
A two month reassessment of the proposals led by the NHS Future Forum led to a number of changes in the Bill. Despite this the government faced substantial opposition in parliament particularly in the House of Lords.
One of the most controversial aspects of the legislation is the removal of the duty of the Secretary of State to provide a national health service.
The Department of Health says that in future the Health Secretary will instead have a duty to promote a health service while frontline organisations will take on the role of commissioning services directly.
BootsWebMD does not provide medical advice diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
This website uses cookies. Our Cookies information page details how we use cookies and how to manage them. To provide even greater transparency and choice we are working on a number of other cookierelated enhancements. More information 
Drawing upon decades of experience RAND provides research services systematic analysis and innovative thinking to a global clientele that includes government agencies foundations and privatesector firms.
The Pardee RAND Graduate School PRGS.edu is the largest public policy Ph.D. program in the nation and the only program based at an independent public policy research organizationthe RAND Corporation.
Education reform comprises any planned changes in the way a school or school system functions from teaching methodologies to administrative processes. RAND evaluates school reform models and conducts casestudy analyses of individual schools and school systems to identify areas of improvement and highlight best practices and effective reform efforts.
The concept of personalized learning has gained favor in recent years partly because new technology applications help to facilitate it. But those who characterize this instructional approach as students just using computers or other devices are greatly oversimplifying it.
A high percentage of mathematics teachers report using instructional materials with some demonstrated evidence of alignment to Common Core State Standards. However there is less evidence that state standards are playing a role in the materials English language arts teachers use.
The Bill Melinda Gates Foundation launched its teacher reform initiative in to improve effectiveness of teachers and to ensure that lowincome minority students have access to highly effective teachers. The impact on student outcomes began to show a positive trend during the school year.
The Intensive Partnerships for Effective Teaching initiative seeks to determine whether a school can implement a highquality measure of teaching effectiveness and use it to support and manage teachers in ways that improve student outcomes. The teacher reforms are showing signs of progress in seven sites.
This report estimates the Intensive Partnerships for Effective Teaching initiatives effect on student outcomes through the school year. The initiative guides personnel practices to give every student access to highly effective teachers.
Researchers evaluated the impact of key reform elements of Intensive Partnerships for Effective Teaching in three public school districts. This brief summarizes an interim evaluation report.
RAND supported the Kurdistan Regional Government in its aims to restructure its Ministry of Education develop plans for a school quality assurance system review support of private schools and assess the content and quality of inservice training.
Criticism of standardized testing is nearly as old as the testing itself. Will the optout movement promote meaningful and enduring changes in the educational system and will these changes benefit the most atrisk and disadvantaged students
This report presents a synthesis of the evidence base on school leadership interventions and describes the opportunities for supporting such interventions under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act.
RAND supported the Kurdistan Regional Government in its aims to restructure its Ministry of Education develop plans for a school quality assurance system review support of private schools and assess the content and quality of inservice training.
A high percentage of mathematics teachers report using instructional materials with some demonstrated evidence of alignment to Common Core State Standards. However there is less evidence that state standards are playing a role in the materials English language arts teachers use.
With the recent passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act Congress is broadening what it considers success when it comes to judging school quality. One potential new indicator being discussed in some states is social and emotional learning which has been linked to success later in life.
RAND supported the Kurdistan Regional Government in its aims to restructure its Ministry of Education develop plans for a school quality assurance system review support of private schools and assess the content and quality of inservice training.
The new Common Core State Standards changed expectations for what students should learn in English language arts and mathematics and what teachers should know and teach in their classroom. Prior to the first round of K standardized testing in most teachers had concerns about test difficulty and low student performance.
The majority of K teachers are expected to address state standards for English language arts and literacy but many reported the need for professional development to help students meet these standards.
In a survey of the American Teacher Panel most mathematics educators reported familiarity with Common Core state standards and believed they were moderately or well prepared to help their students meet them.
This evaluation describes the Regional Choice Initiative RCI a largescale initiative in school districts in Pennsylvania. The RCI sought to expand school choice and offer morerigorous courses for students in grades to .
Hawaiis preschool to thirdgrade initiative significantly improved thirdgrade reading scores. The P approach is a promising education reform that should be considered by those seeking to improve early education performance.
A relatively new approach to improving longterm educational outcomes called preschool to third grade or P focuses on the youngest students. Hawaiis recent initiative has been successful at raising thirdgrade reading scores.
Although countries differ greatly in how their education systems are structured financed and the extent to which they are centralized they share common obstacles that undermine reform success. Beyond the obvious steps of providing adequate resources and professional development there are ways to improve the implementation of schoolwide reforms.
Becki Herman is a senior policy researcher and distinguished chair in education policy at the RAND Corporation. She specializes in conducting and evaluating research on school improvement including school turnaround comprehensive school reform and related school and districtlevel
Charles A. Goldman is a senior economist at the RAND Corporation and a professor of economics at the Pardee RAND Graduate School. He specializes in the economics of education strategic planning for education systems workforce needs and organization and performance of schools universities
Stay on top of the latest RAND research highlights news and commentary with the official RAND email newsletter.
The RAND Corporation is a research organization that develops solutions to public policy challenges to help make communities throughout the world safer and more secure healthier and more prosperous. RAND is nonprofit nonpartisan and committed to the public interest.
Subscribe to the weekly Policy Currents newsletter to receive updates on the issues that matter most.
A new Reason Foundation policy brief focuses on the challenge of developing a viable userfriendly permile charging system to replace fuel taxes for the nations major highways and outlines reasons why permile tolling is a better highway user fee than fuel taxes. As the brief explains fuel taxes should be replaced with a direct charge for highway services that is sustainable fair efficient andfor major highways and bridgestailored to the capital and operating cost of individual facilities. Further the system should not create privacy concerns by enabling governments to track where and when people travel and it should give motorists choices in how to pay for their miles traveled. FULL POLICY BRIEF
The socalled California rule on pensions basically holds that California government employees acquire a right to their promised pension benefits on day one of employment and those benefits are assumed to be protected for their entire career in government. In other words they are seen as permanent contractual rights that cannot be changedunless the terms are modified to bestow enhanced benefits. Policymakers are thus precluded from later deciding to enact reforms to rein in those benefits in the interest of the financial sustainability of the pension systemsuch as reducing cost of living adjustments or increasing contribution rateseven if on a purely prospective basis where previously accrued benefits would be left untouched. In a recent Reason.org article Emory Law School associate professor of law Alexander Volokh explains why the California rule is counterproductive and explores several potential workarounds including shifting to defined contribution plans providing benefits via shortterm contracts amending the state constitution and privatization. FULL ARTICLE
The latest installment of Reason Foundations Innovators in Action monthly interview serieswhich profiles innovative policymakers in their own words highlighting good government efforts delivering real results and value for taxpayersexamines Michigans groundbreaking reforms to its state employee pension system in which closed the definedbenefit system to new hires and created a parallel definedcontribution system. Michigans pioneering reforms have served as a model for similar actions taken later in Alaska Utah and other states. I recently interviewed former state treasurer Douglas B. Roberts Ph.D. on the factors that prompted Michigans historic pension reforms how proponents made the case for reform lessons learned and much more. FULL INTERVIEW
A month after New York launched the nations first social impact bond initiativewhere the private sector finances and implements new social service delivery models on behalf of governments under a payforsuccess contract modelMassachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick announced the launch of the Massachusetts Juvenile Justice Pay for Success Initiative a sevenyear million program that represents the largest social finance investment in the U.S. thus far. FULL ARTICLE
In February the Missouribased ShowMe Institute released a report examining ways that Missouris state and local governments can and do partner with the private sector to provide an array of public services as well as challenges that some jurisdictions have faced in contracting out services and best practices in implementation. I recently interviewed ShowMe Institute Director of Local Government Policy David Stokes the reports author on its findings. FULL INTERVIEW
Brazilian social movements marched on Sunday in support of President Dilma Rousseffs political reform program one of the presidents campaign promises.
The movements staged their march as the farright also took the streets to demand an impeachment against Rousseff.
The president promised political reforms during the latest presidential campaign.
I will make the big changes that the Brazilian society is demanding. I will head in the most peaceful and democratic this transformations. Im willing to open a dialogue amongst all social sectorsshe said in October.
Social movements and political analysts consider the rightwing are trying to use impeachment to oust the government.
The figure of impeachment was used in to remove former president Fernando Collor de Mello over corruption charges.
The owner of this website www.irinnews.org has banned your access based on your browsers signature beafbedaua.
JEDDAH Saudi Arabia Reuters Saudi Arabias sweeping plans to overhaul its economy in coming years are matched by proposals for social transformation that extend to ways of tackling domestic violence increasing city park space and reducing road deaths. 
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife. 
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems. 
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants. 
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens. 
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals. 
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan. 
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education. 
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up. 
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
The plan sets goals of increasing the number of units to protect victims of family violence to from and resolving three quarters of domestic violence incidents within three months of them being reported. 
But in a country governed by Islamic Sharia law many judges regard the use of violence by the patriarch of a household as permissible in some circumstances and one cleric recently spoke on television about ways to beat a wife without causing injury.
Women remain the legal wards of a male guardian usually a father husband or brother who is empowered to make big life decisions for them and are forbidden from driving. 
No changes appear likely soon in those restrictions but the government is promoting measures to get more women into work something that could itself spur social pressure for new reforms.
Poor governance has contributed to Saudi Arabias woeful record in road safety analysts say. Around Saudis die each day in traffic accidents. Now the government will spend . billion riyals on new safety measures that aim to reduce the number of deaths by a quarter. 
The plan offers Saudis more access to public space which has often been neglected in the rush to expand cities as the population exploded after the s. 
One target is to raise the amount of park space in municipal areas by a quarter and to achieve a fivefold increase in the size of national parks at a cost of million riyals aiming to boost annual visitor numbers by percent to . million.
The Vision plans set up new commissions for culture and entertainment seen by some Saudis as a possible precursor to allowing cinemas for the first time since the s. 
Ultimately the plans may simply end up acknowledging social shifts which have already taken place in Saudi Arabia where change can be hard for outsiders to notice because it is gradual. 
What is said about social change is not even percent of the changes that will take place quietly in the Saudi style. The stupid West expects us to do things on their clock. The Saudi government does things by the Saudi clock said Ibrahim Mugaiteeb a Saudi human rights activist. 
A government panel released a social security system reform proposal Friday calling for greater contributions from the elderly and highincome earners as well as other reforms to make the system more sustainable.
The draft released by the National Council on Social Security System Reform seeks to raise payments by patients aged between and at hospitals to percent of total medical costs from the present percent and to separate people requiring less nursing care from insured nursing care services.
For highincome earners it calls for raising direct payments for nursing care services from the present percent of total costs a tax on their retirement income and health insurance premiums.
The council will finalize the proposal Monday for its submission to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Tuesday.
The draft proposes that payments for expensive medical care services be raised for highincome patients and lowered for lowincome patients and that nursing care insurance premiums be lowered for lowincome earners aged or more.
It will also propose that the national health insurance program currently managed by cities towns and villages be run by prefectures.
The report will say that the transfer of authority should be made before the governments next medical program starting in fiscal on condition that the government work out measures to get the health insurance system out of chronic deficit.
The draft asks the government to consider a raise in the pensionable age as a medium to longterm challenge.
It does not include a new pension system or the abolition of a special health care system for people aged or older both of which were proposed when the Democratic Party of Japan was in power. Abes Liberal Democratic Party returned to power in last Decembers Lower House election.
Simon says a better solution to the Social Security contribution base issue is to ban all abortions on and after the onset of fetal heart beat and brain wave activity.
Change is in the air for healthcare. How will reform affect social workers and their clients
Perhaps no piece of legislation has engendered more debate consternation and confusion in recent years than the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which President Obama signed into law in March . But no matter your personal views on healthcare reform it is clear that the new law has the potential to significantly affect social workers and their clients.
As the legislations first batch of provisions is implemented social workers are assessing what healthcare reform means for the profession overall and for providers in particular practice areas. They are finding that reform provides many new opportunities for social workers although many questions remain about how and when these opportunities will present themselves.
I get questions every day from social workers who are overwhelmed by the complexity of the reform and thats understandable says Laura W. Groshong LICSW a Seattlebased psychotherapist and lobbyist who is director of government relations for the Clinical Social Work Association. The changes that are going to take place are going to change how we practice. Some of it may be better some of it may be harder but its going to be different. 
a temporary program to provide healthcare coverage to people with preexisting conditions who have been uninsured for at least six months
prohibition against insurers placing lifetime limits on coverage denying coverage to children with preexisting conditions or dropping peoples coverage when they get sick
a requirement that new health plans cover certain preventive care services without charging a deductable copay or coinsurance
the creation of a billion fund to invest in proven prevention and public health programs and
a rebate to older adults affected by the doughnut hole coverage gap in their Medicare prescription drug benefit.
Beginning in a series of changes will begin that are aimed at providing insurance coverage to millions of uninsured Americans. These changes include the creation of health insurance exchanges to facilitate the purchase of coverage by individuals and small businesses the expansion of eligibility for Medicaid coverage tax credits to help people purchase coverage penalties for some employers that do not offer health insurance and a requirement that all U.S. citizens and legal residents have health coverage. The reforms will reduce the number of uninsured people in the United States by million by according to estimates from the Congressional Budget Office. About million residents will remain uninsured.
The reform also includes provisions that promote the expansion of home and communitybased services chronic disease prevention wellness programs and efforts to eliminate healthcare disparities.
On a broad level healthcare reform will affect all social workers no matter their areas of practice. Thats because reform will increase millions of Americans access to medical services thus empowering clients who previously faced barriers to preventive care. Social workers have long recognized the connections between access to such care and physiological economic and social functioning says Stephen Gorin PhD MSW a professor of social work at Plymouth State University in New Hampshire. 
This bill gets us a giant step closer to what we have been struggling for all of these years he says. There are pieces of this that really fit the social work perspective such as how it helps to narrow income disparities.
The reforms also could usher in greater acceptance among healthcare professionals of social works personinenvironment perspective. The reforms emphasis on concepts such as patient empowerment preventing hospital readmissions medication management and the integration of home and communitybased services is compatible with the social work approach says W. June Simmons MSW founding president and CEO of the Partners in Care Foundation a Californiabased organization that promotes innovation and collaboration in healthcare.
It gives us the chance to showcase the factors that positively or negatively affect functioning. If were really going to restore people we have to have a comprehensive view of the person she says. Its a great way to showcase social work.
Beyond these overall changes there are many ways in which health reform will affect social workers in particular practice areas. For example reform could open new career opportunities for social workers in healthcare by continuing the push toward delivery models that integrate primary care and behavioral health. This means social workers and other behavioral health professionals could become more prevalent in primary care settings such as communitybased clinics Simmons says.
That shift could have a significant impact on private practitioners. As social workers become more integrated into community settings practitioners working individually in private offices could become less prevalent Groshong says. Working in a clinic or other primary care setting may mean a loss of autonomy for social workers who otherwise would be private practitioners but it also means fewer headaches with administrative issues such as billing she says. Other changes private practitioners may see in the next few years will revolve around issues such as reimbursements electronic health records and personal health records. 
Many changes also are on the horizon for older adults and the social workers who serve them. The change with the most potential to help such clients and providers is the Community Living Assistance Services and Supports CLASS Act says Morgan Gable MSW policy analyst for home and communitybased services for the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging. The voluntary insurance program is funded through payroll deductions. Once a person pays into the program for five years and is faced with functional limitations he or she can tap the program to help pay for assistance with activities of daily living transportation home modifications and related services. 
Providers of services for older adults will also benefit from the CLASS program because they will now have a different revenue stream from which to draw Gable says. Even though the new CLASS plan will not pay out its first benefits for several years the new options that it will provide older adults and their service providers have incredible potential over the long term.
The CLASS Act is only one provision likely to benefit older adults Gable says. The reform legislation also gives states the opportunity to expand older adults access to home and communitybased services under Medicaid. In addition new pilot and demonstration programs aimed at improving services to older adults will foster coordination efficiency and innovation among service providers.
Substance abuse treatment providers are trying to determine how reform will affect how they do business. Although many of the details about how reform legislation will affect providers have yet to be hammered out providers expect that reform will lead to more requests for services because it will allow more people to access insurance coverage that covers behavioral health services says Kenneth S. Ramsey PhD president and CEO of Gateway Rehabilitation Center in Pennsylvania who is also chairman of the public policy committee for the National Association of Addiction Treatment Providers. 
Gateway is preparing for the increased demand for services especially services for adolescents and older adults. The organization plans to begin construction this spring on a squarefoot building that will more than double its capacity for youth and adolescent clients and allow it to serve more adults. Gateway expects to hire more therapy staff paraprofessionals and support staff as well as provide more training to staff on topics such as the needs of older adults Ramsey says.
And as Gateway pursues expansion of facilities and staff it also expects to increase its efforts to educate its clients and their family members about what healthcare reform means for them.
Most people arent aware of what their insurance plans cover so part of our work already involves a great deal of education Ramsey says. We do a great deal of outreach and education and well do a lot more as these reforms are put in place. But we have to learn about it ourselves first and educate our staff.
Observers agree that social workers roles as educators will be vital to the success of healthcare reform. One has to look back only a few years to the confusion surrounding the implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit to appreciate how much work it will take to help people understand the benefits they are entitled to under healthcare reform says Andrew Sperling JD director of legislative affairs for the National Alliance on Mental Illness.
Medicare Part D required a multifaceted education approach and healthcare reform will take even more of an effort especially in reaching the uninsured he says. And no one single education strategy is going to work. Federal officials public agencies and state officials are going to have to all be a part of it.
One important role social workers may be called on to play is dispelling myths about the legislation that surfaced during the battle over healthcare reform Gable says. For example older adults may continue to be concerned about claims that the legislation calls for death panels that will determine whether a person should receive medical services based on his or her level of productivity in society.
Although trying to sort through the ins and outs of healthcare reform may be a daunting task it is important that social workers are knowledgeable enough to properly advocate for reform in the face of efforts to repeal it or water it down Gorin says. 
This legislation is consistent with social works values and ethics and we need to continue to support it he says. Its going to be hard to hold it together and we cant let it unravel.
Christina Reardon MSW is a freelance writer based in Harrisburg PA and contributing editor at Social Work Today.
Even before President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act opponents vowed to repeal it. And with the recent midterm elections increasing Republicans power in Congress concerns about the future of the legislation have intensified.
The election results are not cause for panic though the consensus among observers is that the legislation will not be repealed.
The midterm elections could have a significant impact on the implementation of reform says Michael Doonan PhD director of the master of public policy program at Brandeis Universitys Heller School for Social Policy and Management and executive director of the Massachusetts Health Policy Forum. But first dont believe people who tell you that healthcare reform will be repealed. It wont.
Opponents of reform do not have enough support in Congress to repeal the legislation Doonan says. It would take votes in the Senate to repeal large sections of reform and Democrats still control that body. Even if repeal passed Congress President Obama could veto it.
But that doesnt mean the reform is entirely safe. Opponents still could attempt to derail particular provisions of the legislation through denying the funding or staffing necessary to implement them says Stephen Gorin PhD MSW a professor of social work at Plymouth State University in New Hampshire. For example some states may refuse to set up health insurance exchanges where individuals and small businesses can purchase coverage. Opponents also could mount court challenges to the reform.
In addition it is possible that some insurers and businesses will try to get around the law. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has already granted waivers to companies that have objected to the laws requirements to phase out annual limits on coverage saying it would force them to drop coverage altogether.
Perhaps surprisingly public opinion could make it easier for the Obama administration to keep the health reform legislation together. Many people who are dubious about reform may begin to change their minds as more of the legislations provisions are implemented Gorin says.
My hope is that once some of the reforms are introduced people will want to keep them he says. Who is going to want to go back to the days when people couldnt get insurance because of preexisting conditions or when kids were prevented from being on their parents insurance until age 
So health reform appears safeat least until the presidential election of says Kenneth Ramsey PhD president and CEO of Gateway Rehabilitation Center in Pennsylvania. 
eventspracticalguidewelfarereformworkactandsocialsecurityissues on this server.
If you are unable to fix the problem yourself please contact tfn at scvo.org.uk and be sure to provide the technical support key shown above.
Register to receive email news alerts daily digest weekly roundup or Topic newsletters.
People across Scotland are being asked to take part in a national discussion about how the country can be a fairer and more equal place to live.
All the latest news information and publications on Scottish welfare reform mitigation work tackling poverty and the Scottish Welfare Fund. 
Provides information on our strategies and commitment to tackle poverty in Scotland. 
Access all of our analytical information and reports in relation to the further devolution of social security powers to the Scottish Parliament and the impacts of the UK Welfare Reform Act .
Welfare Reform stakeholders peers and experts working with us and sharing the knowledge to find key issues and solutions.
Information on further devolution of social security powers to the Scottish Parliament following the Smith Commission report.
Learn more about the conversation on Creating a Fairer Scotland and share your views 
Information on the action the Scottish Government is taking to ensure people in Scotland continue to receive passported benefits under the new benefits regime. 
Thanh Nien Newspaper conferred with stclass Labor OrderAdvertise with usAbout us
Housing structures that support the provision of social and affordable homes in thriving communities where people are proud to live. If you do not already know that is the overarching vision for DSDs Social Housing Reform Programme SHRP. It is a vision NIFHA supports and it echoes the sentiments of our new Great Homes Thriving Communities strapline.
Recently I was up at the Assembly in Stormont to hear DSD present on their progress having completed Stage of the SHRP. This phase was to explore in detail Minister McCauslands proposals for the reform of social housing as instructed by the NI Executive. Stage due to be completed by March is to develop and get approval for detailed design plans with these plans supposed to be implemented by March .
Pay lags average for all degrees and one in three law graduates ends up in a nonprofessional job.
The chair of the Law Societys PII committee notes that despite a benign market runoff costs and cybercrime need close attention.
New guidance on the presence of lawyers at section interviews is confrontational and likely to be counterproductive.
Roches awardwinning general counsel for the UK and Ireland talks about bioscience leadership and confounding expectations.
Lawyers groups are bracing themselves for a prolonged fight with the government over curbs to personal injury claims after a minister dashed hopes of a retreat on the controversial plans.
Justice minister Lord Faulks told personal injury lawyers last week that the Ministry of Justice intends to press ahead with proposals to scrap general damages for whiplash claims and raise the small claims limit to for all personal injury claims.
The plans were originally announced last November by chancellor George Osborne pictured. However the fact that a promised consultation has yet to materialise had raised hopes that the government might backtrack.
But Faulks told the annual conference of the Association of Personal Injury Lawyers that the government plans to consult after the EU referendum and to implement changes through a mixture of primary and secondary legislation in . He lambasted a substantial industry that encourages unnecessary inappropriate or even fraudulent claims through cold calling and other social nuisances.
Faulks remarks were immediately condemned as an attack on access to justice. Campaign group AJ said that Faulks has made it clear he is not interested in justice for millions of ordinary people who thanks to the governments plans will be denied the right to redress for injuries received through no fault of their own.
The Law Society has promised a robust response to the consultation. Chief executive Catherine Dixon told the conference that reform of the personal injury sector implemented in needs more time to be analysed before further changes are made.
The government seemingly believes that plans to raise the small claims limit for personal injury claims to and abandon general damages for minor whiplash injuries will help stop fraudulent claims. We disagree she said.
The proposed changes they are not reforms are so preposterous they cannot go unchallenged. The government has a big fight on their hands. If Faulks is to be believed then the changes will be implemented by a rubber stamp exercise in . In his dreams.
So there will be a consultation period after which the government will proceed as planned. I have never expected democracy to override the interests of the governments friends in insurance but it is refreshing to hear a minister confirm that.
Is it just me who finds it amusing that it is the Justice minister who has confirmed the outcome of the consultation is irrelevant
That implies that at least one in people will imminently have a low velocity impact and suffer whiplash injuries.
If that is true and those injuries are as catastophic and serious as the getyafreeipadforyourclaim brigade claim then I think we as a nation need to do something to PREVENT this major problem from continuing.
It must be surely as serious a public health issue as obesity or sugar in foods.
was a bad year for me. One medium velocity impact about K damage to each car. Neither I my passengers nor the in the car in front had any injury.
Who sold my details to CMCs Why did quindel regulated by the claims society repeatedly ask if i was ok and whether I wanted to claim for uninsured losses
Why did BMW want me to enter into a credit hire agreement charging per day when I could hire a car for pw
Why did the insurers on the the other side charge my insurers per day for a merc which the other driver wanted notwithstanding the fact he was a single male with a good job and presumably plenty of credit
The entire industry is wrong but is it not peddled by the insurers and big business 
Not good not good at all. It just seems like this government keeps proposing policies based on total fiction. Ideology trumps facts each and every day. 
Id really encourage everyone to check out Access to Justice AJ APIL and MASS. We really need to work together to fight these proposals. 
I dont think anyone is saying all future accidents will happen imminently. Over a period of years though yes millions of people will lose out.
Surely the law society should constructively engage with the Government on this issue instead of issuing threats to be robust.Yes it is clear whiplash has been abused because it is easy to claim whiplash when you havent but the majority of whiplash claims are not fraud. Its the factory firms and CMCs that have caused this with cold calling. We should ask for whiplash not to be abolished but to be moved to the small claims track where sceptical District Judges can cast an eye over them without the threat of the defendant paying enormous costs. A rule of thumb would be that if you are fit and male you are very unlikely to suffer whiplash in low impact case.We could point out that other types of personal injuries need demonstrable proof of injury so there is not widespread fraud for those cases and they should not be moved to the small claims track. They are difficult cases and we can show LIPs cant deal with them
So Anon . judges will just guess I dont get the cast an eye piece so we are saying ignore medical evidence and Drs 
Access to Justice have issued a call to arms and the Law Society should offer resources to Martin Coyne so as to enhance this groups efforts.
The doctors have learnt to their cost what it is like to negotiate with a government devoid of integrity. 
Since when CFAs came in the number of personal injury claims registered with the CRU for nonRTA has been flat in fact the number is lower now than it was in the early s.
NonRTA cases are just as open to the ambulance chasing no winno fee brigade free iPad or not and just as open to someone falsely claiming some sort of soft tissue damage that supposedly cant be proved either way.
The only difference between how these claims are handled is that after an RTA everyone contact their insurers and maybe a car repairer meaning details of accident victims are collected and people can be persuaded into making a claim that they might otherwise not have done. Its not that these claims are bogus although a small number are its that they are targeted and encouraged to claim.
Its no coincidence that between and like nonRTA claims motor PI claims were also flat. In the referral fee ban was lifted insurers and others could start making money from referrals. RTA claims then began to rise.
The same procedures and the same protections against fraud exist currently in RTA and nonRTA claims but the rise in claim volume has only happened in RTA. If the insurers want to get levels of RTA claims down bogus or genuine they need to get their own house in order.
If the problem was no winno fee greedy solicitors dodgy claimants or any of the other supposed causes of the compensation culture things would be the same for all types of claim and they arent.
Banning large numbers of accident victims from being able to put right what has been done to them is not a fair solution.
Daily Update. Keep abreast of the latest developments that affect the profession 
The Gazette offers you uptotheminute national and international news opinion features indepth articles plus a jobs and appointments section.
The Law Society represents solicitors in England and Wales. From negotiating with and lobbying the professions regulators government and others to offering training and advice were here to help protect and promote solicitors across England and Wales.
CPD Centre helps you to complete your annual CPD requirements quickly and easily.
We run CPD training seminars conferences and networking events for our members.
Law Society Publishing titles ebooks and selected key works from other legal publishers.
We can help you with advice on aspects of legal practice client care and complaintshandling pastoral care and PII.
While proposals in the Vision reforms to reduce Riyadhs dependence on oil revenue and boost the private sector have drawn most attention some of the most consequential changes envisaged for Saudi Arabia are to its society.
The Vision or the other programs are intended to transform not only the economy. The intention also is to transform the society and to address the needs of the younger generation and the aspirations that they look for Information Minister Adel alToraifi told reporters on Tuesday.
The kingdoms strict social customs and rapid development created a nation in which community feeling is highly valued but opportunities for public gathering are scarce one that reveres the harsh life of its Bedouin forebears but in which obesity is rife.
Religious strictures are particularly influential in shaping Saudi society tightly limiting the role of women enforcing rigid public morality rules and battling some government efforts to modernize the legal and education systems.
Meanwhile rapid development since the discovery of oil in has led to inefficient provision of government services and an expansion of cities and towns with little thought given to the social needs of their inhabitants.
In a country where Saudi citizens have no vote and where falling oil income means their economic horizons may contract in coming years improving their sense of satisfaction with daily life in the kingdom is important to ensure political stability.
Education reform is widely regarded by Saudi social and political analysts as the single most important area for change but also the most difficult. It requires overhauling a large bureaucracy and changing the mindset of teachers often trained to regard their profession through a religious lens.
While the plans look good Im worried the bureaucratic machinery is not up to the mark. There has to be a true political will to ram this thing ahead Khaled Almaeena a former editor of Arab News and Saudi Gazette daily newspapers.
The new plan aims to more than double enrolment of children aged threetosix years in education at a cost of . billion riyals as well as to provide new training opportunities for large numbers of teachers with a price tag of billion riyals.
The ambition is to improve average maths and science scores for students by around percent over the next five years. Religion a big component of the curriculum now was not mentioned in the education part of Mondays plan.
The plan also aims to increase the number of Saudis exercising weekly to percent from percent. Some clerics frown on women exercising and most girls schools do not offer physical education.
Womens gyms are licensed as health centres making them much more expensive. One initiative in the new plan is to spend million riyals on improving licensing procedures for womens sports centers to make them easier to set up.
An area where the contradictions between modernization and Islamic tradition are evident is in a new focus on tackling domestic violence. The reform plans target spending million riyals on services for family violence victims and another million riyals on improving awareness about the issue.
To use this website cookies must be enabled in your browser. To enable cookies follow the instructions for your browser below.
But there is a nearterm cash crunch in one part of Social Security that lawmakers must resolve in the next year or two. 
The trust fund for Social Security disability benefits which is separate from the fund for retirement benefits is on track to be insolvent most likely by the end of but no later than . 
So unless Congress acts to replenish the fund beforehand the program will only be able to pay an estimated of promised benefits to . million disabled workers plus the benefits paid to their spouses and dependents if the disabled worker was the primary breadwinner. 
Our best guess is that a fix will occur as close to the disability solvency deadline as Congressionally possible. Think debtceiling negotiations said Jim Kessler senior vice president for policy at Third Way a centrist Democratic think tank. 
Then again the fact that is a major election year makes it very possible that Congress could move on the issue next year said Steve Bell senior director of economic policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center. 
The most dramatic thing Congress could do of course would be to do nothing and just let benefit checks be cut across the board. 
No one expects that will happen. But lawmakers have let the supposedly unthinkable occur twice in the past two years. 
I might have said it was impossible but that was before witnessing sequestration and the government shutdown said Marc Goldwein the senior policy director at the bipartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. 
Today . of the first of a workers wages is earmarked for Social Security half paid by the employee and half by the employer. And one in seven dollars of that tax is dedicated to the disability trust fund. 
So Congress could decide to simply bump up the amount allocated for disability. 
If it does the Social Security trustees last year projected that the exhaustion date for both the retirement fund and the disability fund would be after which the combined trust funds would only have enough coming in to pay of promised benefits. If the fate of both funds werent tied together the exhaustion date for the retirement fund would be just two years later. 
At the very least Goldwein would like to see revenue reallocation accompanied by changes that improve the disability program financially and administratively. 
Kessler would like to see a disability fix that includes a bipartisan commission to address the longterm solvency of Social Security as a whole. 
The leftleaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities would like the disability fund to be replenished as a part of a comprehensive solvency package for all of Social Security. 
But since the chances of enacting a comprehensive Social Security package by are close to nil we are emphasizing the need to reallocate a portion of the payroll tax to the disability fund to avoid a sharp cut in benefits said center senior fellow Paul Van de Water. 
Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy. .
The owner of this website www.irinnews.org has banned your access based on your browsers signature beafbddfua.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out whats happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out whats happening in the world as it unfolds.
Nashua New Hampshire CNNLeading Republican presidential contenders arent shying away from proposals to overhaul Social Security and Medicareonce considered untouchable third rails of American politics.
Change is in the air for healthcare. How will reform affect social workers and their clients
Perhaps no piece of legislation has engendered more debate consternation and confusion in recent years than the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which President Obama signed into law in March . But no matter your personal views on healthcare reform it is clear that the new law has the potential to significantly affect social workers and their clients.
As the legislations first batch of provisions is implemented social workers are assessing what healthcare reform means for the profession overall and for providers in particular practice areas. They are finding that reform provides many new opportunities for social workers although many questions remain about how and when these opportunities will present themselves.
I get questions every day from social workers who are overwhelmed by the complexity of the reform and thats understandable says Laura W. Groshong LICSW a Seattlebased psychotherapist and lobbyist who is director of government relations for the Clinical Social Work Association. The changes that are going to take place are going to change how we practice. Some of it may be better some of it may be harder but its going to be different. 
a temporary program to provide healthcare coverage to people with preexisting conditions who have been uninsured for at least six months
prohibition against insurers placing lifetime limits on coverage denying coverage to children with preexisting conditions or dropping peoples coverage when they get sick
a requirement that new health plans cover certain preventive care services without charging a deductable copay or coinsurance
the creation of a billion fund to invest in proven prevention and public health programs and
a rebate to older adults affected by the doughnut hole coverage gap in their Medicare prescription drug benefit.
Beginning in a series of changes will begin that are aimed at providing insurance coverage to millions of uninsured Americans. These changes include the creation of health insurance exchanges to facilitate the purchase of coverage by individuals and small businesses the expansion of eligibility for Medicaid coverage tax credits to help people purchase coverage penalties for some employers that do not offer health insurance and a requirement that all U.S. citizens and legal residents have health coverage. The reforms will reduce the number of uninsured people in the United States by million by according to estimates from the Congressional Budget Office. About million residents will remain uninsured.
The reform also includes provisions that promote the expansion of home and communitybased services chronic disease prevention wellness programs and efforts to eliminate healthcare disparities.
On a broad level healthcare reform will affect all social workers no matter their areas of practice. Thats because reform will increase millions of Americans access to medical services thus empowering clients who previously faced barriers to preventive care. Social workers have long recognized the connections between access to such care and physiological economic and social functioning says Stephen Gorin PhD MSW a professor of social work at Plymouth State University in New Hampshire. 
This bill gets us a giant step closer to what we have been struggling for all of these years he says. There are pieces of this that really fit the social work perspective such as how it helps to narrow income disparities.
The reforms also could usher in greater acceptance among healthcare professionals of social works personinenvironment perspective. The reforms emphasis on concepts such as patient empowerment preventing hospital readmissions medication management and the integration of home and communitybased services is compatible with the social work approach says W. June Simmons MSW founding president and CEO of the Partners in Care Foundation a Californiabased organization that promotes innovation and collaboration in healthcare.
It gives us the chance to showcase the factors that positively or negatively affect functioning. If were really going to restore people we have to have a comprehensive view of the person she says. Its a great way to showcase social work.
Beyond these overall changes there are many ways in which health reform will affect social workers in particular practice areas. For example reform could open new career opportunities for social workers in healthcare by continuing the push toward delivery models that integrate primary care and behavioral health. This means social workers and other behavioral health professionals could become more prevalent in primary care settings such as communitybased clinics Simmons says.
That shift could have a significant impact on private practitioners. As social workers become more integrated into community settings practitioners working individually in private offices could become less prevalent Groshong says. Working in a clinic or other primary care setting may mean a loss of autonomy for social workers who otherwise would be private practitioners but it also means fewer headaches with administrative issues such as billing she says. Other changes private practitioners may see in the next few years will revolve around issues such as reimbursements electronic health records and personal health records. 
Many changes also are on the horizon for older adults and the social workers who serve them. The change with the most potential to help such clients and providers is the Community Living Assistance Services and Supports CLASS Act says Morgan Gable MSW policy analyst for home and communitybased services for the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging. The voluntary insurance program is funded through payroll deductions. Once a person pays into the program for five years and is faced with functional limitations he or she can tap the program to help pay for assistance with activities of daily living transportation home modifications and related services. 
Providers of services for older adults will also benefit from the CLASS program because they will now have a different revenue stream from which to draw Gable says. Even though the new CLASS plan will not pay out its first benefits for several years the new options that it will provide older adults and their service providers have incredible potential over the long term.
The CLASS Act is only one provision likely to benefit older adults Gable says. The reform legislation also gives states the opportunity to expand older adults access to home and communitybased services under Medicaid. In addition new pilot and demonstration programs aimed at improving services to older adults will foster coordination efficiency and innovation among service providers.
Substance abuse treatment providers are trying to determine how reform will affect how they do business. Although many of the details about how reform legislation will affect providers have yet to be hammered out providers expect that reform will lead to more requests for services because it will allow more people to access insurance coverage that covers behavioral health services says Kenneth S. Ramsey PhD president and CEO of Gateway Rehabilitation Center in Pennsylvania who is also chairman of the public policy committee for the National Association of Addiction Treatment Providers. 
Gateway is preparing for the increased demand for services especially services for adolescents and older adults. The organization plans to begin construction this spring on a squarefoot building that will more than double its capacity for youth and adolescent clients and allow it to serve more adults. Gateway expects to hire more therapy staff paraprofessionals and support staff as well as provide more training to staff on topics such as the needs of older adults Ramsey says.
And as Gateway pursues expansion of facilities and staff it also expects to increase its efforts to educate its clients and their family members about what healthcare reform means for them.
Most people arent aware of what their insurance plans cover so part of our work already involves a great deal of education Ramsey says. We do a great deal of outreach and education and well do a lot more as these reforms are put in place. But we have to learn about it ourselves first and educate our staff.
Observers agree that social workers roles as educators will be vital to the success of healthcare reform. One has to look back only a few years to the confusion surrounding the implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit to appreciate how much work it will take to help people understand the benefits they are entitled to under healthcare reform says Andrew Sperling JD director of legislative affairs for the National Alliance on Mental Illness.
Medicare Part D required a multifaceted education approach and healthcare reform will take even more of an effort especially in reaching the uninsured he says. And no one single education strategy is going to work. Federal officials public agencies and state officials are going to have to all be a part of it.
One important role social workers may be called on to play is dispelling myths about the legislation that surfaced during the battle over healthcare reform Gable says. For example older adults may continue to be concerned about claims that the legislation calls for death panels that will determine whether a person should receive medical services based on his or her level of productivity in society.
Although trying to sort through the ins and outs of healthcare reform may be a daunting task it is important that social workers are knowledgeable enough to properly advocate for reform in the face of efforts to repeal it or water it down Gorin says. 
This legislation is consistent with social works values and ethics and we need to continue to support it he says. Its going to be hard to hold it together and we cant let it unravel.
Christina Reardon MSW is a freelance writer based in Harrisburg PA and contributing editor at Social Work Today.
Even before President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act opponents vowed to repeal it. And with the recent midterm elections increasing Republicans power in Congress concerns about the future of the legislation have intensified.
The election results are not cause for panic though the consensus among observers is that the legislation will not be repealed.
The midterm elections could have a significant impact on the implementation of reform says Michael Doonan PhD director of the master of public policy program at Brandeis Universitys Heller School for Social Policy and Management and executive director of the Massachusetts Health Policy Forum. But first dont believe people who tell you that healthcare reform will be repealed. It wont.
Opponents of reform do not have enough support in Congress to repeal the legislation Doonan says. It would take votes in the Senate to repeal large sections of reform and Democrats still control that body. Even if repeal passed Congress President Obama could veto it.
But that doesnt mean the reform is entirely safe. Opponents still could attempt to derail particular provisions of the legislation through denying the funding or staffing necessary to implement them says Stephen Gorin PhD MSW a professor of social work at Plymouth State University in New Hampshire. For example some states may refuse to set up health insurance exchanges where individuals and small businesses can purchase coverage. Opponents also could mount court challenges to the reform.
In addition it is possible that some insurers and businesses will try to get around the law. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has already granted waivers to companies that have objected to the laws requirements to phase out annual limits on coverage saying it would force them to drop coverage altogether.
Perhaps surprisingly public opinion could make it easier for the Obama administration to keep the health reform legislation together. Many people who are dubious about reform may begin to change their minds as more of the legislations provisions are implemented Gorin says.
My hope is that once some of the reforms are introduced people will want to keep them he says. Who is going to want to go back to the days when people couldnt get insurance because of preexisting conditions or when kids were prevented from being on their parents insurance until age 
So health reform appears safeat least until the presidential election of says Kenneth Ramsey PhD president and CEO of Gateway Rehabilitation Center in Pennsylvania. 
Register to receive email news alerts daily digest weekly roundup or Topic newsletters.
Social tenants and landlords are set to benefit from a number of reforms announced today by Housing Minister Margaret Burgess at SFHA annual conference.
Social tenants and landlords are set to benefit from a number of reforms announced today by Housing Minister Margaret Burgess.Reforms will change the way social landlords allocate and manage their housing. 
These reforms will allow social landlords to address the specific needs of the local community ensuring best use of available social housing tackling antisocial behaviour and providing further protection for tenants.
Speaking at the Scottish Federation of Housing Associations Annual Conference the Housing Minister outlined the measures which are likely to form part of a forthcoming Housing Bill.
During the SFHA Conference Mrs Burgess also announced that initial or probationary tenancies will not be included in the Housing Bill.
The changes I am announcing today will ensure that we deliver firstrate homes and services to tenants residents and homeless people the most vulnerable in our society.
By giving landlords greater flexibility at a local level they will be able to respond to the needs of their local community. 
In order to provide affordable warm homes for people in Scotland it is vital that we continue to find ways to increase supply and quality across all tenures.
Despite Westminsters cuts to our capital budget we have taken every opportunity to increase our investment in housing. By the end of April we had allocated m additional funding for housing supply bringing total investment to almost m in the three years to March .
A credit ratings agency is monitoring London providers with large exposures to the sales market following mass downgrades for the sector after the EU referendum.
Only tough regulation will prevent property companies taking advantage of vulnerable tenants says Sam Lister
Housing associations should prepare for the extension of Right to Buy says Linda Convery
Going up or doing down how many homes will the UK build Jess McCabe takes a look into the future with the Top Biggest Builders in the sector
When the chancellor unexpectedly raised stamp duty for institutional private sector landlords did it spell the end of the buildtolet market Caroline Thorpe reports
The decline in home ownership is prompting some surprising rethinks says Jules Birch
Housing at social rents is under threat but that doesnt mean its terminal says Peter Walters
Grass roots opposition to the Housing and Planning Act will continue even though it has become law says Glyn Robbins
The Public Accounts Committee was right in its criticism of the extended Right to Buy says John Perry
The changes to Right to Buy gives councils the opportunity to push for a better deal says Eamon McGoldrick
Jules Birch reads between the lines as the government finally gets its way on the Housing Bill
Scotlands largest housing association has been downgraded two notches and placed on negative watch by a credit agency.
A London borough is striving to find a way to write off millions of pounds of historic housing debt to allow its muchvaunted stock transfer to go ahead.
The Local Government Association is seeking urgent assurance from the government that councils will still receive .bn in regeneration funding promised by the European Union.
Standard and Poors SP has issued credit downgrades to most of the housing associations it rates as a result of the Brexit vote.
A housing association has secured a m bank loan from Lloyds to support its housebuilding programme.
The Homes and Communities Agency HCA has approved the first forprofit registered provider wholly owned by a council.
Cashstrapped councils are increasingly drawing cash from their housing budgets to plug gaps in backoffice costs an exclusive Inside Housing investigation reveals.
All stakeholders have played down the impact of Brexit on the housing sectors first financial deal announced since the referendum.
A contractor has entered into a joint venture with a London borough to acquire homes in a bid to tackle soaring homelessness.
A local authority is to launch an investment fund through which councils can gain a return by backing housing associations housebuilding.
A housing association has had its credit rating slashed ahead of a major merger due to a substantial increase in development ambition and reliance on income from sales.
A credit agency has changed the outlook for all the housing associations it rates to negative following the vote to leave the EU last week.
Two associations are in talks to renegotiate settlements after Barclays announced last week that it would redraw controversial LOBO loans.
More than three quarters of the public believe the right kind of housing is out of reach for young people a survey commissioned by the Chartered Institute of Housing CIH has revealed.
The European Investment Bank EIB has said it will honour social housing funding commitments already in place with the UK following the vote to leave the European Union.
Millions of pounds have been wiped off the value of house builders as shares plummeted in the wake of the Leave vote in the EU referendum.
Housing associations credit ratings are under threat as agencies warn of the negative consequences of the vote to leave the European Union EU.
Barclays has agreed to waive its option to increase interest rates on a set of loans taken out by housing associations in the wake of the financial crisis.
Willmott Dixon has revealed that its pretax profit dropped nearly across the group in despite growing revenue.
The National Housing Federation NHF has struck a commercial deal with a hedge fund manager to promote its product to members.
As shared ownership finally gets its big break exclusive new data reveals how the tenure performs for the first time. Nick Duxbury reports
The mayor of London has committed to a review of Housing Zones in the capital with an aim of increasing the affordable housing delivered.
Valuers have poured cold water on stock transfer housing associations plans to create extra borrowing capacity in the wake of changes to the valuation system included in the Housing and Planning Act.
Labour has tabled urgent questions and threatened to call for a National Audit Office investigation over Inside Housings research into Right to Buy fraud.
Around of council homes sold by councils under the boosted Right to Buy have been to tenants on housing benefit raising fears of fraud.
A housing association in the Midlands has struck a refinancing deal with three banks to fund the building of homes by .
Seven councils in East Anglia are set to decide on a new devolution deal which includes m of funding for housing after a wider deal fell through.
Housing associations could be vulnerable to judicial review if they refuse to sell tenants the homes they are living in under the extended Right to Buy.
A housing association has become the first to sign up for equity investment from a fund manager which plans to invest m in social housing.
Subscribe to Inside Housing today to get full access to all the latest news comment and analysis and to join our online community of housing professionals
The latest legal news opinion analysis jobs and events. Wherever you are whenever you need it.
The Communities and Local Government department had an enormous and overbloated budget before it was cut in half according to the housing minister.
Grant Shapps said the department would have needed an unrealistically huge budget if it had set out to build enough homes to halve the housing waiting list. You would need billion quid to do this he said.
He said there was no way that was realistic even in the most benign conditions.
The governments comprehensive spending review published yesterday cuts the CLG budget by per cent by . If . billion devolved to local authorities is taken out of the equation the departments budget falls per cent with capital spending cut per cent.
Mr Shapps added plans to introduce new forms of fixedterm tenancies where future tenants would pay up to per cent of the market rent were clearly the most radical shakeup of housing since the war.
But he said the plans would not mark a death of the existing function and concept of social housing.
It doesnt destroy whats there it builds on it. We have got . million affordable social homes at the moment. They are not going to disappear. In the spending review period we are building more.
He said that he did not foresee that tenants would ever have to leave their homes once their fixedtenancies were up even if their circumstances had improved dramatically. They may have to pay more than an per cent share if they were no longer in housing need he said.
There would be no problem staying in your home he said. It would be illogical for a landlord to say I have got per cent or I have got per cent of market rents and ask people to leave. There is no reason to think you would have landlords chucking people out.
Mr Shapps also denied that he had backtracked on pledges made before the election to maintain security of tenure for social tenants.
Read our lips he said. We said we would respect the security of tenure of social tenants. Anyone who is a social tenant nothing has changed. It cant make sense to then say right we will never ever change the way that we do social housing in this country forever.
If youre already a subscriber to Inside Housing your subscription may not be linked to your online account. You can link your subscription from within the My Account section of the website and clicking on Link My Account.
If you dont yet subscribe to Inside Housing please visit our subscription page to view our various subscription packages.
The government has pledged to ensure the social housing sector only supports those who genuinely need it in response to a hattrick of heavy defeats in the Lords on Pay to Stay. 
A human rights watchdog is to launch an inquiry into the effects of the governments welfare reforms on minority groups. 
Tributes have been paid to a legendary figure in social housing who has died. 
An official planned to assess the impact of sweeping government changes to housing associations in deciding whether they should be public bodies emails reveal. 
Subscribe to Inside Housing today to get full access to all the latest news comment and analysis and to join our online community of housing professionals
The latest legal news opinion analysis jobs and events. Wherever you are whenever you need it.
The forthcoming Life Chances Strategy will set out a comprehensive plan for transforming the life chances of disadvantaged children.
The Neighbourhood Planning and Infrastructure Bill will pick up where the Homes and Planning Act left off. This Bill will reform planning and give local communities more power and control to shape their own area so that we build more houses
It will include measures to reform and speed up the planning process by minimising delays caused by precommencement planning conditions. A new statutory basis for the independent National Infrastructure Commission. Streamlined processes supporting neighbourhoods to come together to agree plans that will get home building under way.
A new Care Leavers Covenant underpinned by statutory duties will make sure local authorities set out clearly the entitlements for care leavers including housing jobs and healthcare.
Legislation will support the Governments ambition to deliver one million new homes whilst protecting those areas that we value most including the Green Belt. Drive more effective and efficient delivery of housing and infrastructure that local communities need and make the process clearer faster and fairer. Also included is a commitment to more traineeships.
Continued support by Whitehall in devolving powers and budgets and creating powerful new elected mayors who will give people in northern cities and towns a strong voice.
A transfer of up to bn to councils through allowing them to retain of the business rates they collect.
Legislation will improve coordination between the public and private sectors to tackle criminal financial behaviour.
This will help those from low incomes build up their savings. Workers in receipt of working tax credits or Universal Credit who save up to a month will receive a Government bonus of to a maximum of after two years.
These will be sold for housing developments see the Budget announcement made by George Osborne
For more details on this issue or how to receive your copy visit our new housing site.
VATICAN CITY Pope Francis has reformed the Roman Catholic Churchs cumbersome procedures for marriage annulments a decision keenly awaited by many couples around the world who have divorced and remarried outside the church. 
The Vatican said Monday that the pope had written a document known as a Motu Proprio Latin for by his own initiative which changes the way Catholics get annulments. 
The details of the document which is expected to streamline and simplify the procedure will be released Tuesday at a Vatican news conference. 
An annulment formally known as a decree of nullity is a ruling that a marriage was not valid according to church law because certain prerequisites such as free will psychological maturity and openness to having children were lacking. 
The . billionmember church does not recognize divorce. Catholics who divorce and remarry outside the church in civil services are considered to be still married to their first spouses and living in a state of sin. This bars them from receiving sacraments such as communion. 
The new procedures follow the popes appointment a year ago of an member commission of lawyers and theologians to propose reform of the process. The Vatican said at the time that he wanted to simplify and streamline the procedure while safeguarding the principle of the indissolubility of marriage. 
The situation of divorced and remarried Catholics who want to fully participate in the church is a topic of great debate particularly in countries such as the U.S. and Germany and it will be a main topic at a synod of bishops from around the world at the Vatican next month. 
Making it easier for divorced couples to receive annulments would allow them to return to the sacraments. 
Progressive bishops want the church to be more merciful toward Catholics whose first marriages have failed. 
One Vatican expert on marriage annulments said that the new rules would not change the criteria for getting annulments but that they would make the procedures easier. 
ADB President Takehiko Nakao and NDB President K.V. Kamath signed a memorandum of understanding on cooperation. Mr. Kamaths visited ADB headquarters to meet with ADBs Management and Board of Directors.
Subscriber Services Subscribe to ADBs Newsletter eAlerts RSS feeds and mobile apps.
ADB encourages websites and blogs to link to its web pages. Articles may be republished without alteration with the attribution statement This article was first published by the Asian Development Bank www.adb.org and a clickable link back to adb.org.
The government is to launch its White Paper outlining reforms for funding social care today th July . The White Paper was to take forward the proposals of the Dilnot Commission which recommended that there should be a limit on how much people should pay for social care set over a persons lifetime at and extending financial support for the elderly with assets of up from the current limit of . People born with disabilities or long term health needs or those that develop during early adulthood would have been be exempt from any charges.However despite election promises to tackle the issue of the cost of social care the White Paper proposals are expected to provide only for a national deferred payment scheme in allowing people to borrow the cost of care against property. Deferred payment schemes are not new local authorities have been running versions of such schemes for years. The government this week also announced extra m to local councils to help integrate social care and health services. There is another m for housing projects to adapt houses for the elderly.
Amongst other proposals is the power for local authorities to outsource community care assessments.
Social workers and CAFCASS cant replace experts in courts says head of professional group
A leading family expert has attacked Lord Justice Ryders reforms to witness evidence in the family courts which would see a greater role for social workers and CAFCASS officers.
Now I have nothing against the role of social workers I wish that social workers were able to do the work better said Dr Judith Freedman head of the Consortium of Expert Witnesses to the Family Courts.
But social workers she said are not trained to provide mental health assessments much less medical assessments.
Dr Freedman attacked president of the family division Sir James Munbysreport on the reforms where he said he believes that social workers and guardians are the new experts.
Speaking this morning at the Westminster Legal Policy Forum on family reform Dr Freedman berated the judiciary on its suggestion that social workers and CAFCASS officers can be used instead of experts in court. Dr Freemans comments followed that of Anthony Douglas chair of CAFCASS.
I just hope that when the president Lord Justice Ryder and Mr Douglas go to hospital to have an operation they can look forward to being operated on by social workers said Dr Freedman.
Dr Freedman a consultant psychiatrist at Portland Clinic said that her organisation which has members was left confused by the messages promulgated by the judiciary in recent months.
When Lord Justice Ryder announced his reforms a year ago he asserted that expert reports take too much time must be necessary are too long and are short on analysis she said.
He also said that expert use in private law cases remained unaddressed. It remains unaddressed made worse by Lord Justice Ryders judgment in favour of the Legal Aid Agency not to fund expert reports when there are parties who cannot pay their share of the bill.
Changes to the test applied to experts in family courts in February mean that evidence must be necessary. Previously evidence from experts including psychologists and doctors was permitted if it was reasonably required.
Sir James Munby said that not only do they experts need to be necessary but there now need to be three grounds on which they are necessary. This has led some parts of the countryto request for all expert instructions to be turned down.
In May the MoJ said the quality of experts in family courts must improve and announced the launch of consultation into expert quality standards.
Poor quality expert evidence can lead to unacceptable delays for children and their families justice minister Lord McNally said at the time.
His pictures of the squalid lives of New Yorks immigrants made him the most famous photographer of his day and were credited with bringing reforms which offered some hope to the booming citys poorest residents.
Jacob A Riis documented the overflowing tenements of New Yorks Lower East Side more than years ago shining a spotlight on how the wave of immigrants from Europe were living in a city which at the same time was the worlds economic powerhouse.
He became a friend of the young rising political star Theodore Roosevelt who called him New Yorks most useful citizen. But some modern historians claim his photographs were actually freak show pictures which played to stereotypes about immigrants.
Now the Danishborn photographers work is to be highlighted in a new exhibition in New York which will then travel to Washington DC.
A new exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York shows the work of Jacob A Riis who documented the lives of immigrants in New York City tenements at the turn of the last century. Above a room where residents paid five cents for a spot to sleep on the floor
Riis who once suffered under he extreme poverty he later documented worked as a police reporter for New York papers and would write about the slums he photographed. Above a picture calledUnder the Dump at West th Street.
The journalist and photographer was celebrated in his own time though has since been criticized for promoting stereotypical views of different ethnicities. Above three children curled up together on a metal grate during a New York winter
New Yorks Mulberry street left in a photograph called Bandits Roost was once part of the citys most notorious slum neighborhoods. It is now popular with tourists and is home to a cluster of Italian restaurants
The exhibition hopes to show attendees the photographers career in full which also included newspaper articles and books on the same themes of urban poverty.
Bonnie Yochelson who is curating the MCNY exhibition previously wrote a book about Riis who struck out for America in the late s after the girl he loved rejected his marriage proposal.
He originally worked as a carpenter before losing his job during tough financial times.
Riiss photography eventually led turn of the century politicians such as Theodore Roosevelt to crack down on the worst lodging house offenders. Above newsboys at a lodging house clean their faces
The Dane was credited with bringing light to social problems that many middle class Americans had not seen before. Above a photograph entitled Peddler Who Slept in the Cellar of Ludlow Street
Riis was particularly worried about the children growing up in slum conditions and blamed the violent environment they lived in for possible bad behavior. Above a photograph called Scene on the Mott Street Barracks
For a time he experienced the extreme poverty he would later document for others. His photographs taken using a tripod camera and articles in nowdeparted newspapers such as the New York Tribune.
Yochelson told NPRthat his most famous book How the Other Half Lives went to immigrant neighborhoods but accused him of being guilty of perpetrating a freak show.
Come see the colorful Italians and the mystifying Chinese Yochelson said of his attitudes.
Despite his alleged biases not a problem which was raised at the time Riiss magnesium powder flash photography is credited with bringing light both figuratively and literally to the desperate situations he saw.
Waves of antiimmigrant sentiment also pulsated through the United States but the journalists work soon gained powerful supporters.
The photographer also looked at the places of work of the immigrant communities such as the above Bohemian cigarmakers. His work would later be followed up by fellow muckraker Upton Sinclair who exposed conditions in the meatpacking industry
Riis used new photography techniques that incorporated magnesium powder to create a large flash. But photography was still a long way from where it is today and the film needed so much time to be properly exposed that movements like this girls hand would be picked up
The immigrants work later gathered powerful supporters such as future president Theodore Roosevelt. Above a picture taken at a Lower East Side sweatshop on Ludlow Street
Riis was later accompanied on his journeys into the slums by Theodore Roosevelt then on the New York Board of Police Commissioners.
The future president who would close the worst lodging house offenders became friends with the Dane and said that he was New Yorks most useful citizen.
Riiss work would set the stage for later muckrakers such as The Jungle author Upton Sinclair.
Beyond efforts at reform the journalist also worked with philanthropists in an effort to assure that any moral citizen had a chance to work for a better life attributing bad behavior to the environment where people were raised.
He later married his Danish sweetheart after her first husband died and brought her to America before his death in .
The upcoming exhibition on his work which opens on October will travel to Washington DC and Denmark after its stay in New York.
Above portraits of Little Katie from the West nd Street Industrial School and an ancient women lodger in Eldridge St from a series about police station lodgers
Though he supported government reforms to housing conditions he also worked with philanthropists to help assuage the damages of poverty. Above a photograph called The Board of Election Inspectors in the Beach Street School
After years of documenting slum life Roosevelt once called Riis New Yorks most useful citizen.Above a photo of a childrens playground
Riis later married his childhood sweetheart brought her to America and died in . Above a photo of him taken in 
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
Money and extra staff are to be put at schools disposal to enable them to become advice and support centres for young people and their families while nurseries and childrens centres will offer help on parenting. 
Radical reform in the way education and social services are provided in the city follows a month study by the National Childrens Bureau believed to be the first of its kind in Great Britain. 
It discovered that the proportion of children with behavioural problems in Manchester was well above the national average and that the number of children being excluded from school was gradually rising. 
Council departments felt they were operating under siege. Social workers in particular believed they were being asked to carry an unfair responsibility and were haunted by fear that they would be blamed for the next death of a child. 
Manchester is one of a handful of local authorities who have set up a joint childrens services subcommittee with representatives from education and social services. It plans to set up pilot schemes in at least two areas in the city with the departments working in tandem. 
The authority which covers the second most socially deprived area in the country has the second highest proportion of loneparent households at . per cent. More than a quarter of all children aged between and live in such households. More than a third of children live in households with no adults in active employment. Manchester has . per cent of its families in this group compared with the national average of . per cent. 
The authors of the report John Rea Price director of the NCB and Gillian Pugh its early childhood unit director said deviant behaviour among children could be linked to mothers and fathers lacking parenting skills. 
They said schools had access to children and their families in a way that no other service did. For many children schools provided the continuity and stability that was absent elsewhere in their lives. 
They called for closer collaboration between voluntary and private sector playgroups and childminders who provide more than half the day care places for children under five and nursery classes in primary schools so that the pool of resources available to parents was seen as a whole. 
While the provision of day care is crucial to enabling parents and particularly women to return to work or to continue their training there is widespread evidence that many parents with young children would welcome opportunities to meet informally with other parents seek advice . . . become involved in their childrens education . . . and would value help in looking at new ways of handling challenging behaviour or communicating better with their children the report added. 
Earlyyears forums across the city are suggested to enable workers from different agencies to develop services locally for children and their parents. 
A new multiagency forum involving education and social services health authorities and trusts will oversee progress and consolidate work currently being done. 
And the council hopes that multiagency support will cut out exclusions and truancy with clusters of schools adopting preventive rather than defensive measures. 
To read the rest of this article and access the full TES archive subscribe now.
This website and its content is subject to our Terms and Conditions. TES Global Ltd is registered in England Company No with its registered office at Red Lion Square London WCR HQ.
BlackJobsMatter is a play organizers hope will convince lawmakers to create a new Wilmington enterprise zone.
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
There are some big ideasand I like to think big saidBob Elder whose day job ismarketing manager for Wilmingtonbased accounting firmSantora CPA Group and who previously worked as president of Delaware Sterling Bank and Christiana Bank.
He came up with the idea for the unique lobbying effort after beingtroubled by the lack of opportunities available in the community and realizing theneed for elected officials to step up.
Elder ended up working with Alan Levin the former director of the state Economic Development Office to get the project going. They decided on enterprise zones which governments use to attract businesses by offering tax breaks and other incentives in designated areas. Businesses in the zones are then required to hire residents from within the boundaries concentrating job growth.
About states have enterprise zones.In Delaware creating the program would requirelegislative approval which is why organizers of BlackJobsMatter are reaching out to elected officials.
In order to bring a very dense policy issue to life Elder turned to Delaware playwright Gregory Lloyd Morris.A Los Angeles native Morris said he tapped into his experience as a young father struggling to pay for Christmas presents for his children andpeople in his community having trouble paying bills.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics the national unemployment rate for African Americans is . percent double the rate for whites.
In our city the black men and the brown men in particular need gainful employment Morris said. The idea is to create more jobs in the city and get the black men in the community and the brownmen to be gainfully employed and become taxpayers.
John Miller who plays Lefty in the play said participating in the production is his way of making change in his community. Like many of the actors in the small cast Miller is a Delaware resident and friend of Morris.
After years of workingat The Ferris School a juvenile detention center for atrisk or repeat offenders in GreenvilleMiller said he needed to do something rather than just talk about the problems around the water cooler.
It is time to make a change Miller said. It is time for people to wake up and understand what is going on.
Gov. Jack MarkellWilmington City Council members Wilmington mayoral candidates and Bryan Townsend who is running for the states lone seat in the U.S. House of Representatives have said they areattending the play organizers said.The show is free and open to the public but seating islimited.
The governor is always interested in ways to maximize economic development in Wilmington to raise the quality of life and create more job opportunities for city residents said Courtney McGregor a Markell spokeswoman.
Jonathan Justice a professor at the University of Delaware School of Public Policy and Administration who worked to create an Urban Enterprise Zone in Jersey City New Jerseysaid while enterprise zones can be an incentive if a company is already looking to relocate in the area in the longterm the zones dont increase the number of jobs.
The majority of states have enterprise zone programs but each is different. In California where the program targeted job creation for the longterm unemployed and exconvictsthe state ended the program after it was found to have no impact on job creation.
It is not a large enough subsidy to cause new businesses to exist or expand enough to engage in new hiring Justice said.
Markells office pointed to the states Downtown Development District program which is designed to work much like an enterprise zone giving companies financial incentives to develop in the city.
A small investment from the state has already leveraged tens on millions of dollars of private investment in the city and the governor has proposed additional funding for the program in his recommended budget this year McGregor said.
Many of the projects previously funded through the program were mixeduse apartment buildings on Market Street.
Elder said hes hopeful the play will make an impression on elected officials and momentum will start building.
If someone in the state can bring big business to this state to hire these men these unemployed black men we can cure the crime problem he said.
The play issponsored by a group of donors including several big banks headquartered in the city.
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro announced Monday his decision to suspend the South American countrys electricity rationing plan amid the arrival of the rainy season.
Venezuelas Foreign Ministry has released the following statement in solidarity with the victims of the attacks in Bangladesh and Iraq.
Venezuela assumes the economic trade blocs presidency despite several other member states objection to the lawful transition.
The vice president of Venezuelas ruling socialist party distanced himself Thursday from a campaign led by one of his minor allies for the countrys National Assembly AN to be dissolved.
The US president called on the government to respect the countrys National Assembly and to release what he described as political prisoners.
Venezuelas Foreign Ministry has released the following statement in reaction to the terrorist attacks that rocked the Turkish city of Istanbul on Tuesday.
Local PSUV leader Elizabeth Aguilera was gunned down in her home in Cota Monday night by an alleged criminal group who later burnt her body.
Venezuelas Chief Prosecutor announced that more than cases of state terror were found from to .
Trinidad began shipment of goods to Venezuela last week just one month after signing historic trade deals.
Venezuelas Supreme Court announced that it would hear a lawsuit filed by former high ranking cabinet members against a government plan to open percent of the South American nations territory to openpit mining.
The Organisation of American States concluded another marathon discussion on Venezuela Thursday without voting on whether Caracas should be suspended from the regional bloc.
The leftist Spanish politician said that Venezuelan opposition parties do not have the authority to investigate his party.
The suspects are alleged to have acted as part of a criminal gang that carried out the mass murder of at least miners in Bolivar state earlier in March.
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro met with US envoy Thomas Shannon on Wednesday before flying to Havana to attendthe signing of an historic peace accord between the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia FARC.
The Chinese government dismissed allegations that they met with the opposition after a Financial Times recent report stated otherwise.
Bolivarian ProjectCivil SocietyEconomyEnvironmentGender and SexualityIndigenous AfroVenezuelansInternationalLaborLand ReformLaw and JusticeMedia WatchMilitaryOil and GasOppositionParticipationPoliticsSocial ProgramsVenezuelan Media
Bolivarian ProjectCivil SocietyEconomyEnvironmentGender and SexualityIndigenous AfroVenezuelansInternationalLaborLand ReformLaw and JusticeMedia WatchMilitaryOil and GasOppositionParticipationPoliticsSocial ProgramsVenezuelan Media
Venezuelanalysis.com is an independent website produced by individuals who are dedicated to disseminating news and analysis about the current political situation in Venezuela. read more
Money and extra staff are to be put at schools disposal to enable them to become advice and support centres for young people and their families while nurseries and childrens centres will offer help on parenting. 
Radical reform in the way education and social services are provided in the city follows a month study by the National Childrens Bureau believed to be the first of its kind in Great Britain. 
It discovered that the proportion of children with behavioural problems in Manchester was well above the national average and that the number of children being excluded from school was gradually rising. 
Council departments felt they were operating under siege. Social workers in particular believed they were being asked to carry an unfair responsibility and were haunted by fear that they would be blamed for the next death of a child. 
Manchester is one of a handful of local authorities who have set up a joint childrens services subcommittee with representatives from education and social services. It plans to set up pilot schemes in at least two areas in the city with the departments working in tandem. 
The authority which covers the second most socially deprived area in the country has the second highest proportion of loneparent households at . per cent. More than a quarter of all children aged between and live in such households. More than a third of children live in households with no adults in active employment. Manchester has . per cent of its families in this group compared with the national average of . per cent. 
The authors of the report John Rea Price director of the NCB and Gillian Pugh its early childhood unit director said deviant behaviour among children could be linked to mothers and fathers lacking parenting skills. 
They said schools had access to children and their families in a way that no other service did. For many children schools provided the continuity and stability that was absent elsewhere in their lives. 
They called for closer collaboration between voluntary and private sector playgroups and childminders who provide more than half the day care places for children under five and nursery classes in primary schools so that the pool of resources available to parents was seen as a whole. 
While the provision of day care is crucial to enabling parents and particularly women to return to work or to continue their training there is widespread evidence that many parents with young children would welcome opportunities to meet informally with other parents seek advice . . . become involved in their childrens education . . . and would value help in looking at new ways of handling challenging behaviour or communicating better with their children the report added. 
Earlyyears forums across the city are suggested to enable workers from different agencies to develop services locally for children and their parents. 
A new multiagency forum involving education and social services health authorities and trusts will oversee progress and consolidate work currently being done. 
And the council hopes that multiagency support will cut out exclusions and truancy with clusters of schools adopting preventive rather than defensive measures. 
To read the rest of this article and access the full TES archive subscribe now.
This website and its content is subject to our Terms and Conditions. TES Global Ltd is registered in England Company No with its registered office at Red Lion Square London WCR HQ.
If you are unable to fix the problem yourself please contact jeremy at graphisterie.lu and be sure to provide the technical support key shown above.
Social workers and CAFCASS cant replace experts in courts says head of professional group
A leading family expert has attacked Lord Justice Ryders reforms to witness evidence in the family courts which would see a greater role for social workers and CAFCASS officers.
Now I have nothing against the role of social workers I wish that social workers were able to do the work better said Dr Judith Freedman head of the Consortium of Expert Witnesses to the Family Courts.
But social workers she said are not trained to provide mental health assessments much less medical assessments.
Dr Freedman attacked president of the family division Sir James Munbysreport on the reforms where he said he believes that social workers and guardians are the new experts.
Speaking this morning at the Westminster Legal Policy Forum on family reform Dr Freedman berated the judiciary on its suggestion that social workers and CAFCASS officers can be used instead of experts in court. Dr Freemans comments followed that of Anthony Douglas chair of CAFCASS.
I just hope that when the president Lord Justice Ryder and Mr Douglas go to hospital to have an operation they can look forward to being operated on by social workers said Dr Freedman.
Dr Freedman a consultant psychiatrist at Portland Clinic said that her organisation which has members was left confused by the messages promulgated by the judiciary in recent months.
When Lord Justice Ryder announced his reforms a year ago he asserted that expert reports take too much time must be necessary are too long and are short on analysis she said.
He also said that expert use in private law cases remained unaddressed. It remains unaddressed made worse by Lord Justice Ryders judgment in favour of the Legal Aid Agency not to fund expert reports when there are parties who cannot pay their share of the bill.
Changes to the test applied to experts in family courts in February mean that evidence must be necessary. Previously evidence from experts including psychologists and doctors was permitted if it was reasonably required.
Sir James Munby said that not only do they experts need to be necessary but there now need to be three grounds on which they are necessary. This has led some parts of the countryto request for all expert instructions to be turned down.
In May the MoJ said the quality of experts in family courts must improve and announced the launch of consultation into expert quality standards.
Poor quality expert evidence can lead to unacceptable delays for children and their families justice minister Lord McNally said at the time.
All the latest news from across the SEND sector alongside expert blogs and stories from the ground.
National Childrens Bureau Registeredcharity No.. Registered in England and Wales No..
Eleven housing associations in the South West of England have joined forces to tackle the employment issues faced by residents in affordable housing as a direct result of the changes to welfare reform.
HAILO Housing Association Influence and Leadership Organisation commissioned Professor Anne Power atLSEto conduct a study looking at how the governments welfare reform programme will influence tenants work opportunities in the south west. HAILOs interim baseline report entitled Work and welfare reformimpacts in the south west includes interviews with working age social housing tenants and brings to life a snapshot of tenants circumstances at the beginning of welfare reform.
Generally the baseline findings show that tenants view the welfare reforms as a great uncertainty that has the potential to disturb carefully managed but limited household budgets. Welfare reform is leading to cuts in income for almost half of the tenants interviewed and is resulting in the growth of debt and rent arrears.
Tenants are already struggling financially due to reduced income from work or benefits particularly those affected by the bedroom tax and tenants are anxious about their ability to find and hold down work. Almost all tenants report high levels of anxiety around coping day to day due to reduced resources and uncertainty about their economic future and impending benefit changes.
Im not paying the bedroom tax. I just dont have any surplus money. I have one spare room. Im falling into arrears and the end result may be that Ill be homeless. Ive had to use all my savings to cover my expenses while Ive been unemployed over the last two years. I think eventually Ill be in serious trouble with the housing association if my debt builds up. There are hundreds of others looking for a one bed flat I dont think Ill be a lucky one.
Moving from Job Seekers Allowance onto tax credits is just not fluid at the moment. They dont even have a tax credit form at the Jobcentre. You have to apply at HMRC and it seems to take weeks. If there is a problem with your forms noone gets in touch with you. Its up to you to chase people constantly and thats expensive for me on the phone 
Does welfare reform encourage people who are currently unemployed into work
Does welfare reform encourage people who are currently working to work more
What are the main barriers to work for tenants and why do some tenants opt not to work
This will enable HAILO to demonstrate to Government the adjustments needed in order to ensure that reforms truly lead to fulfilling employment for those who can work while providing a fairer system for those who cant.
Canadian Mental Health Association Ontario CMHA Ontario has responded to the Social Assistance Review Commissions second paper Options for Reform with recommendations in the Commissions five areas of interest. CMHA Ontario structured their submission to respond to many but not all of the Commissions questions with regards to the options they proposed for possible reforms to the current social assistance system in Ontario.
In recognizing the fiscal restraints under which the Commission was writing their report the overarching message from the CMHA Ontario submission was that any future changes should be considered in the context of the poverty reduction strategy. In addition reforms should not negatively impact social assistance recipients leaving them in a worse financial state than they are now.
Adequate rates were also addressed by calling for an independent rates review board to set criteria. To address the fairness issue that the Commissioners raised CMHA Ontario supported PovertyFree Ontario in their call for a decent wage floor for all lowincome Ontarians.
The Commission asked how to make social assistance viable over the longterm. CMHA Ontario supported downloading of ODSP employment supports to the municipalities if a number of concerns were resolved first.
An increase of asset levels and a new system of reconciliation were also recommended in this report.
CMHA Ontario also made a submission at an earlier stage of the consultation to read that report please visitwww.ontario.cmha.casubmissions.
